MOST of the riveting programmes on fast-growing independent commercial television station, 3Ktv, entered their second season yesterday, with plenty of surprises in store for viewers. This comes as the history-making station marks 100 days of uninterrupted live broadcasting today, after it went on air on February 28 this year, having been licenced in November 2020. Speaking to the Daily News yesterday, 3Ktv’s consummate head of programming, Christina Nyirenda-Chimuka, said the free-to-air television station continued to perform “exceedingly well” — with even more exciting programming lined up for the next 13 weeks of the second season. “The feedback from the market continues to be phenomenal, with both viewers and advertisers remarking about the all-round quality of our programming. “Of course, we are all working even harder to further improve our product offering, which is why our viewers should look forward with anticipation to the second season programme schedule . “We have new dramas like Amanxeba, which means scars, and many others which are certain to take the market by storm. “We also have another gem from Shem Zemura called Muzita ra Baba, which features Amara Brown. I personally can’t wait to watch all these programmes. “Obviously, there will still be the mother of all our soapies, Tangled. I can assure all viewers that things are getting hotter and more exciting in this inimitable soapie,” Nyirenda-Chimuka added. Speaking ahead of today’s 100 days of 3Ktv’s live broadcasting, a bullish Zweli Sibanda — Jester Media Services’ Managing Director the Broadcasting Division — said the station had already achieved things that were beyond the company’s wildest dreams when it first went on air. “It is true to say that time flies when life is good. It really feels like yesterday when 3Ktv became the first of the country’s six licensed private, free-to-air stations to go live on the 28th of February this year. “Not surprisingly as a result, 3Ktv is already well ahead of all our projections for the first six months, including in terms of the viewership numbers and advertising support that the station is getting,” Sibanda said. “This fantastic performance is all thanks to Zimbabweans and our business partners, as well as our dedicated staff who are pulling out all the stops to make sure that 3Ktv remains at the top. “We are also most thankful to the production houses and artistes who are contributing so much to making 3Ktv the TV phenomenon it is becoming. “We are excited about what the future holds, as things can only get better. 3Ktv is definitely here to stay,” Sibanda added.