FAST-GROWING independent commercial television station, 3Ktv, will tomorrow broadcast live the mega OK Zimbabwe Grand Challenge that is taking place at Borrowdale Race Course in Harare. Zweli Sibanda, the Managing Director of Jester Media Services’ Broadcasting Division, the operators of 3Ktv, confirmed the partnership with OK Zimbabwe Limited yesterday. “3Ktv continues to make waves, with many Zimbabweans especially remarking about the quality of the station’s programming and pictures since we became the first private station to launch in the country on February 28 this year. “The partnership with OK Zimbabwe on the Grand Challenge is another feather in the cap for 3Ktv. To be trusted by a leading corporate like OK Zimbabwe on this massive event speaks volumes about the progress that we have made. “This is the beginning of many such mega collaborations between 3Ktv and all our long-standing business partners,” Sibanda said. The station’s powerhouse Head of Programming, Christina Nyirenda-Chimuka, told the Daily News last month that there was an enormous appetite for “excellent, independent and locally-produced television content in the country and among Zimbabweans in the diaspora” — such as was being provided by 3Ktv. “Zimbabweans have been crying for competition and more quality local programming for quite some time, and they now have it in 3Ktv. “Indeed, and with the tag line ‘The Best of Zimbabwe’, 3Ktv is meeting this hunger for riveting, 24/7 television programming. “I’ve been around a bit in the media, and I’m convinced that our new baby is a game-changer in terms of the production, marketing and consumption of local TV products,” Nyirenda-Chimuka said. “The support that we are receiving from both viewers and our business partners is most pleasing and well beyond what we expected to get so early into 3Ktv’s launch. “The vast majority of both our free-to-air and satellite viewers have commended 3Ktv for the quality of its programming, pictures and sound. “We do not take this amazing support from our stakeholders for granted, and we pledge to them that we will continue to aspire to do even better going forward,” Nyirenda-Chimuka added. 3Ktv went live on Monday 28 February 2022, becoming the first licensed free-to-air private station to operate in the country since television was first introduced in the then Southern Rhodesia in November 1960. The history-making station was licenced in November 2020, having come tops following a credible and keenly-fought bidding and public hearing process. 3Ktv is a sister venture to Zimbabwe’s iconic and number one business newspaper, The Financial Gazette, as well as the inimitable Daily News and the Daily News On Sunday. The Ok Zimbabwe Grand Challenge promotion kicked off in April running under the theme “Race 2 Happiness” in the chain supermarket’s 52 shops. An immaculate Ford Ranger valued at more than US$72 000 is the grand prize, while 43 Nissan NP200 vehicles are also up for grabs tomorrow. Speaking at the launch of the promotion in Harare, OK Zimbabwe chief executive Maxen Karombo said the promotion was a way for the retail giant to give back to its “loyal customers”.