“I lost the job because of my style or lack of… My fiancè just ditched me because I failed to upgrade my dressing…. I just don’t look like I’m a businesswoman…” Haven’t we all in a way been there? Style identity crisis. A sense of style is attributed, meaning one is not born with it. Some quickly learn by themselves while others are simply lost causes. Good impressions are imperative on a daily basis and one can’t afford to mess up with that. What to do? 3Ktv has come up with a solution for everyone going through this style identity crisis whether they lost it along their way or they need an upgrade to suit their current lifestyle.  Style Street is a show that celebrates fashion and everyone can learn to improve their own fashion statement just by tuning in every week. Hosted by versatile presenter, Shania Buckan, the show is aimed at not only outward fashion but the beauty that glows from within when a person is dressed up from outside. “You don’t get out of bed every morning and decide you are going to play at 50 percent, instead you get out of bed to be the best version of yourself. You only have one chance to make a good impression so remember life is to be lived and fashion is a statement that turns people’s heads towards your statement of life,” she revealed By watching this show airing every Saturday at 2030hours – 2100hours, one can learn from the guest how they can also change or upgrade their personal style using readily available wardrobe pieces. The stylish and gifted show producer Princess Machimbirike said she enjoys watching the transformations that people go through with just a little help.  Most people are too overwhelmed with housework or their jobs to take care of  themselves but with  a little help you see them transforming even in terms of  their self esteem.  Once a person looks great, they even change the way they walk because of the confidence boost,” Machimbirike explained. She thanked the show sponsors who made the guests look great. From hair stylists, manicurists, make-up artists and fashion houses, they all contribute a lot to the success of this show. Asked on what viewers can expect in the new season, Shania said, “We are going to focus on the inner beauty. How can a person exhibit beauty from within.  Therefore, we will talk to people’s psyche, mantras, incantations and the language of self-talk whilst we say, beauty comes from within, it is also a statement, the essence of grace that we will show people how to achieve through fashion.’ Writer can be reached on sympathy@3ktv.co.zw