MARK Mathe will be in charge of Bulawayo Chiefs when they travel to Sakubva Stadium on Saturday to face Black Rhinos in a Castle Lager Premiership tie in the absence of head coach Nilton Terreso, who travelled to Europe this week. According to team secretary-general Dumisani Mantula-Sibanda, Terreso travelled to his native country on Monday to undertake some studies and is expected back next week. And in his absence Mathe will be assisted by Farai Tawachera, goalkeepers’ trainer Nkosi Sibanda and fitness trainer Abraham Mbayiwa. “Yes, the coach has travelled back to Europe and will not be available for our weekend’s match leaving Mathe and the other guys to lead the team,” Mantula-Sibanda told the Daily News. “He is supposed to undertake some studies.” Mathe will be under pressure to ensure the team bounces back to winning ways having gone for five matches without a win. The Twitter Kings have picked up just two points in their last five matches after registering two draws and three defeats to 12 on the log table with nine points from eight matches to raise concern on the team’s management.   “It has been difficult for the past few weeks and we are deeply concerned. It’s something that we have raised with the players as well as the technical team,” Mantula-Sibanda said. “We expect things to change soon. We know we’ve a new team but it should not be an excuse. “The management is doing all they can to ensure the team is well taken care of and that should show on the field.” A lot is expected from Chiefs following some big name signings earlier this year. Chiefs made a huge statement of intent to finally challenge the boys in the top flight after making solid signings recently. The ambitious club snapped up highly-rated midfielder Kelvin Madzongwe, Perfect Chikwende, Kelvin Moyo, Obadiah Tarumbwa and Obriel Chirinda. To energise the massive transformation agenda, the Bulawayo club appointed a new technical staff led by Portuguese Terroso in October last year. The highly-rated coach, who previously worked with Manchester United coach Ole Gunnar Solskjær at Cardiff City in 2014, was appointed to succeed Thulani Sibanda. He came with Iranian exercise physiologist Pouria Jarrahi. The 42-year-old Terroso , is a holder of the Uefa A coaching licence, a BSc in football coaching and performance from University of South Wales. Fixtures: Saturday:  ZPC Kariba v Tenax (Nyamhunga), Herentals v CAPS United (National Sports), Black Rhinos v Bulawayo Chiefs (Sakubva), Ngezi Platinum Stars v Chicken Inn (Baobab), Bulawayo City v Triangle (Barbourfields) Sunday: Whawha v Cranborne Bullets (Ascot), Manica Diamonds v FC Platinum (Sakubva), Harare City v Dynamos (National Sports), Highlanders v Yadah (Barbourfields)