Andile Tshuma VICE President Constantine Chiwenga, pictured, is banking on Zanu PF Bulawayo chairperson Jabulani Sibanda’s organisational ability to win back parliamentary seats the party lost to the opposition in the province. Speaking during the launch of  a Zimpost and Procurement Regulatory Authority of Zimbabwe partnership last Friday, Chiwenga said the ruling party’s candidates for next week’s by-elections  were set to romp to victory as he was certain Sibanda had what it takes to  bring victory. “Nkulumane has been very lucky and the chairperson (Sibanda) must be celebrating 2022 with a big, big aplomb.   “I am quite sure that he is going to take all the seats which we had lost to the opposition,” Chiwenga said. He said what also made victory certain for Zanu PF was that the ruling party was delivering on its 2018 elections promises and had delivered more than it had promised. “I am saying so because we have delivered what we had said we were going to do and we have done it at a terrific speed than what people had thought.  “We have done it. And we are going to do it. For those strategic plans that we have put in place, and told the nation that we are going to deliver, we will deliver,” Chiwenga said. Sibanda, before his sabbatical from active politics was a firebrand leader and instrumental party mobiliser, behind the one million men Zanu PF marches. The firebrand former freedom fighter was booted out of Zanu PF in 2014 after he boycotted former First Lady Grace Mugabe’s rallies across the country where she launched acerbic attacks on former vice President Joice Mujuru and some members of her Gamatox faction at the height of the Zanu PF’s succession battles. At the time Sibanda, who was the Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association chairperson, called on former freedom fighters to resist Grace’s alleged attempts to stage “a bedroom or boardroom coup”. Sibanda bounced back in the Zanu PF big league politics after being elected Bulawayo provincial chairperson recently.