MR and Miss Albinism Zimbabwe pageant founder Brenda Mudzimu has been appointed goodwill ambassador for Africa Disability Alliance (ADA). ADA is an African knowledge-based organisation that works in partnership with the African Union, United Nations, African governments, civil society organisations and academia to promote inclusive development and human rights for persons with disabilities. The appointment of Mudzimu, a qualified health practitioner, is in recognition of the work she does to champion the rights of people living with albinism in the country and beyond through organising pageants and other community initiatives. Mudzimu told the Daily News that the continental appointment will motivate her to do more for people living with albinism.   “It is a great honour to be recognised by big organisations such as ADA. I will use the opportunity to further advance the rights of the disabled people in my society,” she told the Daily News. The Mr and Miss Albinism Zimbabwe founder is determined to do more work to push for equal opportunities in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. “A lot needs to be done when it comes to access to Covid-19 vaccines.  I have already started encouraging people with disabilities to get vaccinated and for them to have access to health centres too,” she said. Mudzimu’s ADA appointment followed the partnership she forged with the Association for Persons with Albinism Malawi (APAM) in 2019.  Mudzimu was roped in to help in the adjudication of the inaugural Mr and Miss Albinism Malawi which was held at Bingu Wa Mutharika International Convention Centre in Lilongwe. Apart from her appointment by ADA, in 2020 Mudzimu was included among the top 30 disability leaders in the world by diversability for her contributions and accomplishments in the fight for albino rights.  A year earlier, she had teamed up with other albino pressure groups from across the continent to form the African Union for Persons with Albinism (AUPA) to collectively advance their concerns. In recognition for her passion in championing the rights of the people living with albinism, Mudzimu was appointed the coordinator of the AUPA, which had the backing of organisations such as the European Union, Christian Blind Mission (CBM) and Americans with Disability Act, among others.