Rumbidzai Ngwenya ngwenyar@dailynews.co.zw ZIMBABWE yesterday got a shot in the arm after receiving US$150 000 worth of medical supplies from Indonesia to mitigate the impact of Cyclone Idai which ravaged some parts of the country particularly Manicaland Province. The medical supplies which included medicine and equipment were received by Health minister and Vice President Constantino Chiwenga in Harare.  Speaking at the occasion to receive the equipment, Chiwenga said the donation would go a long way, not only in assisting victims of Cyclone Idai, but alleviating the effects of Covid-19 as well. “The donation of medical supplies from the Republic of Indonesia comes at a time when the effects of Cyclone combined with those of the Covid 19 have negatively impacted communities causing immense suffering amongst the people. “The donation will go a long way in assisting the needy and mitigating the effects of the Cyclone Idai natural disaster,” Chiwenga said. He also said Indonesia had expressed interest in cooperating with Zimbabwe in the production of various vaccines. “Bio Farma, which manufactures vaccines for measles, polio, hepatitis B and pentavalent vaccine, indicated its readiness to partner with Zimbabwe in capacity-building, the provision of bulk vaccines and technology transfer including concept design, detailed engineering design facilities as well as production for naked vials, ready to fill bulk and formulation bulk, to support domestic vaccine manufacturing. “The company is willing to have Zimbabwe as its manufacturing and distribution hub in  the Sadc region and the rest of the African continent,” he added. On the other hand, Chiwenga said, an Indonesian firm called Kimia Farrua Company invited Zimbabwean companies to discuss potential areas of cooperation and partnerships while Indo Farma indicated its readiness to cooperate with Zimbabwe in the area of prescription products and herbal medicines. In March 2019, the eastern parts of Zimbabwe were hit by heavy rains and strong winds as Cyclone Idai made landfall. The cyclone which was characterised by floods and landslides resulted in loss of lives and left immense damage to infrastructure and livelihoods.