POLICE have raised concern over a spate of murder cases which have been occurring countrywide involving close relatives and suspected mentally-challenged patients. In a statement yesterday, national police spokesperson Paul Nyathi, pictured,said the police were worried about the rate at which citizens who are closely related were resorting to murder after misunderstandings. “Police are concerned with murder cases involving close relatives and suspected mental patients. On March 25 2022, ZRP (Zimbabwe Republic Police) Mwenezi recorded a murder case where a 68-year-old suspected mentally-challenged man fatally assaulted a 49-year-old man with a wooden log at Chongoveza village, Mwenezi. “On March 27 2022, ZRP Bindura Rural recorded a murder case where a 50-year-old suspected mentally-challenged man fatally struck his 52-year-old brother once on the head with an axe after a misunderstanding.  “On March 27 2022, ZRP Mubaira recorded a murder case where a body of a 41-year-old woman was found buried in a shallow grave in a maize field at Zvamano Village, Mubaira. The victim is suspected to have been killed by her husband who deserted his residence leaving a 3-year-old minor locked in a hut. Investigations are underway,” Nyathi said. Nyathi also  said the police in Kanyemba, Mashonalnd Central Province, were  investigating a case of murder which occurred at Mariga Village under Chief Chipato on March 26,, where a suspected 26-year-old mentally-challenged suspect fatally assaulted his 103-year-old grandmother. According to Nyathi, the suspect fled to an unknown destination after committing the offence. Meanwhile, police advised families to find peaceful ways of solving differences and disputes instead of opting to commit murder. “As ZRP we encourage citizens to find someone to share with whatever is troubling them and aim to solve family differences peacefully. If families fail to solve their differences, it’s important for them to look for a third party, who could be an uncle, aunt, pastor or police, who can help them to sort out their differences,”  Nyathi said. by  Hazel Marimbiza in BULAWAYO