JUDGMENT in the matter in which a top cop Erasmus Makodza is accused of corruptly facilitating the leasing of a police farm in Marondera has been pushed to April 14. Makodza stands accused of leasing the farm to his girlfriend at a time he was an officer commanding Mashonaland East Province. He is also facing accusations of criminal abuse of duty as a public officer or alternatively corruptly concealing from a principal personal interest in a transaction. The top cop, however, denied this when he appeared before regional magistrate Noel Mupeiwa.   This is the second time the judgment has been pushed owing to the absence of the trial magistrate who was transferred from Harare. Meanwhile, ruling in the matter in which ex-minister Petronella Kagonye is accused of defrauding home seekers of over US$38 000 applied for discharge has been pushed to March 29. This was because trial magistrate Vongai Muchuchuti- Guwuriro was also absent. Kagonye is also facing theft charges after she allegedly wrote a letter to the ministry of ICT, Postal and Courier Services, Supa Mandiwara requesting computers to donate to schools in Goromonzi South which she did not deliver. She denied the allegations saying there was no evidence that the computers reached her. In another matter, Harare mayor Jacob Mafume will have to wait a bit to know his fate regarding an application of exception he made after the ruling was pushed to March 22. Mafume is accused of influencing council employees to allocate residential stands to his sister and workmate. He initially made an application for exception and the court granted the State the opportunity to amend the charges. But Mafume argued that the amended charges are also defective and should be dismissed. At the same time judgment for former Dynamos player Enerst Chirambadare was also postponed to March 25 after the court indicated that it was yet to be concluded. Meanwhile, the trial of former Zesa Holdings group chief executive Joshua Chifamba together with the company’s group secretary Saidi Sangula and the legal officer Garikayi Churu facing criminal abuse of duty will continue on April 4. The case was also postponed because of the absence of the trial magistrate. The trio is accused of engaging a law firm Chihambakwe, Mutizwa and Partners Legal Firm to carry out debt collection services for the Zimbabwe Electricity Transmission and Distribution Company (ZETDC) without board resolution and the firm benefiting over US$3million.