AS we prepare to join the rest of the world in celebrating the oral health month of April, we applaud the government for taking the initiative. Oral health refers to the well-being of the teeth, gums, and the entire oral-facial system that allows people to smile, speak and chew. In Bulawayo, the ministry of Health is on the campaign trail to educate citizens on the importance of oral health. Speaking to the Daily News on Friday, a representative from the ministry of Health Nigel Machinya said they had set aside days during which people will be able to come and meet with them so that they can demonstrate how they should take care of their teeth.   Some of the most common diseases that impact oral health include tooth decay, gum disease and oral cancer. Not too many of us care a lot about oral health yet taking care of one’s oral care routine and understanding  of how proper oral health can have an impact on overall well-being is paramount. This April we call upon citizens to consider the preventive steps we can take as individuals to make sure our mouths and the rest of our bodies are healthy throughout the year. Good oral hygiene is important for many reasons. It helps in avoiding sore or bleeding gums, missing teeth and infections Oral pain can all affect the ability to eat and talk and these problems can have an influence on the type of food we eat and the enjoyment individuals get from eating. Over and above that, oral pain can make one feel self-conscious and limit the ability to socialise. While we often think of our mouth as a separate part of our body, research has shown a connection between our oral health and certain chronic diseases, such as stroke, heart disease, and diabetes. The moment we realise the  importance of taking care of our smiles, it becomes easier for individuals to make healthy food choices. April is also a month to consider oral cancer. This disease is a type of cancer that can occur anywhere in the mouth, including the tongue, lips, cheeks, gums, salivary glands, and tonsils. Unfortunately, oral cancer has few visible signs in its early stages. That’s why it is important to have oral cancer screening during our regular dental visits. This April, let us all take advantage by making sure we continue to follow the oral care routines.