DUBAI – There was pomp and fanfare in Dubai at the Zimbabwe pavilion yesterday as Zimbabwe celebrated its National Day. Running under the theme ‘Connecting Minds, Creating the Future,’ Expo 2020 Dubai, featuring 192 nations, has so far attracted 3 million visitors to the United Arab Emirates. Officiating during Zimbabwe National Day, President Emmerson Mnangagwa commended the United Arab Emirates leadership for hosting a flawless world expo against all odds. President Mnangagwa waves to delegates pavilion in Dubai He also thanked the United Arab Emirates for the humanitarian support it has extended towards Zimbabwe.  “We thank you for the assistance the UAE rendered to us in our moment of great loss and distress following the climate change-induced tropical Cyclone Idai in March 2019. That critical and timely humanitarian aid helped us to mitigate the impact of that calamity in addition to revamping our health delivery system”, said President Mnangagwa.   Cyclone Idai caused catastrophic damage, and a humanitarian crisis in Mozambique, Zimbabwe, and Malawi, leaving more than 1,300 people dead, 3 million people in need of humanitarian aid, and many more missing. In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Zimbabwe also received medical supplies from the United Arab Emirates. “Most recently, your beautiful country also availed essential medical supplies to bolster our national fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. This show of unity, solidarity and love in the face of challenges is cherished and attests to the excellent bilateral relations between the UAE and the Republic of Zimbabwe, which are going from strength to strength,” the President added. The multibillion-dollar expo was initially scheduled to run in 2020, but had to be postponed by one year due to the coronavirus. After playing the melodic Zimbabwe drum to much acclaim, award winning sensation Jah Prayzah had the world feeding from his palm as he belted hit songs to perfection. His popular song ‘Mudhara vachauya’ was clearly the toast of the night as revellers put on their dancing shoes for a sweet taste of Zimbabwean music. “When the business community, diplomats and visitors come in numbers to cheer up your national day, to taste your food, and to dance to your music, it means they are family,” Sharpe said. The property magnate also thanked the Zimbabwe government, led by President Mnangagwa for pitching the country high on the global map by participating in the Expo 2020 Dubai extravaganza.