OUSTED MDC deputy leader, Thokozani Khupe, has moved to formally throw her weight behind the Citizens Coalition for Change (CCC) ahead of this coming Saturday’s by-elections. Addressing the media and a handful of her supporters in Bulawayo yesterday, Khupe — who was clad in CCC regalia — confirmed earlier speculation that she would throw in her lot with the new party in the March 26 special polls. “Following our previous announcement that we are going to be working with like-minded political parties … and that we were going to give a signal on who our members should vote for in the upcoming by elections, I am therefore announcing that we are calling on all our members to go and vote on March 26 for Citizens Coalition for Change candidates across the country. “By voting … we are building a strong foundation for a resounding victory in 2023.   “It is important that we unite, join hands and rally behind (CCC leader Nelson) Chamisa, because come 2023, there is no doubt that he is going to be the president of the Republic of Zimbabwe,” Khupe said. She also rallied her supporters to embark on door-to-door campaigns to drum up support for CCC. Pressed to pronounce on her political position and the fate of her splinter MDC outfit, Khupe said they were part of the country’s citizens. “If you look at the name of the party, Citizens Coalition for Change, meaning it is citizens who are coming together, who are converging so that they are able to take State power, so as MDC we are also converging as citizens together with other citizens so that we form a formidable force which is going to take State power in 2023,” she said. Until her move yesterday, there had been speculation about the political direction Khupe would take after she was recently jettisoned by opposition leader Douglas Mwonzora. Khupe had also recently said that she was going to make a big announcement after meeting CCC interim vice president Welshman Ncube — a development which sowed seeds of division within CCC. Ncube confirmed to the Daily News On Sunday at the time that there were some party members who were angry about Khupe’s possible jump to the new party. “If we are forming a new party, that party must appeal to everyone. We are saying we are a citizen party. “Can we open our doors to all citizens so that they can feel at home in the same way they felt at home in 2000? “However, because people are so angry and emotional, they rush to talk about Khupe. My thread on twitter is not about Khupe, it is about those voters,” Ncube said then. “I can’t speak for Khupe. I am not Khupe’s spokesperson. I am seeing on social media that she is saying she will make an important announcement. “I don’t know what that announcement will be. So we must be patient and wait for her announcement. “My position is that as triple C we must reach out to all of those people who voted against us whoever they are and wherever they are located,” Ncube added. “I don’t want to talk about unity of bringing opposition parties together, but unity of bringing all citizens around one umbrella and we must not shut out members of party B to come to the party. “I am talking about being open to all citizens to be part of the Citizens Coalition. You can’t call yourself a citizen coalition while shutting out citizens. We need to work with all citizens so that they can be part of the movement,” he also said.