CONFECTIONARY giants Lobels lost close to R17 million and US$80 000 after thieves broke into its Bulawayo offices on Sunday. The police have since launched an investigation into the break in which saw the firm losing the money and a laptop after the thieves blew a safe. “On March 27, police in Bulawayo recorded cases of unlawful entry into premises and theft which occurred at Lobels Biscuits, Belmont, Bulawayo, where unknown suspects broke into the company offices and proceeded to the accounts office where they broke a safe and stole cash amounting to US$79 819, ZAR16 739 950, Pula 950, $110 266 and an HP 250GB laptop. Investigations are underway,” the police said. This comes as cases of unlawful entry targeting businesses have been recorded recently in the second largest city with valuables being stolen.  “On 18 March, ZRP Bulawayo Central recorded two cases of unlawful entry into premises and theft. In the first incident which occurred at corner Jason Moyo street and 4th Avenue, an unknown suspect broke into a shop where he damaged a chubb safe and stole cash amounting to US$7 918, ZAR 2 150 and a laptop. “On the second incident which occurred at a college along Herbert Chitepo Street, the unknown suspect broke into the college offices and stole a chubb safe which had four laptops and a mifi router,” the police said. Also this month, police in Bulawayo busted a syndicate which was allegedly behind a spate of robbery cases in and around the city. “The ZRP confirms the arrest of Blessing Muteve Matsvimbo (18), Ndumiso Nxumalo (23), Blessing Ndumiso Nxumalo, Nathaniel Phiri (28), Privilege Mukuwapasi (21) and Philani Gumede (21) for a spate of armed robbery cases which occurred in and around Bulawayo. “Police officers wearing civilian attire walked along a railway in New Luveve, where the suspects normally target their victims and three suspects tried to attack them before one of the suspects was nabbed. Investigations led to the arrest of the other suspects,” the police said.