THE Environmental Management Agency (Ema) has called for stakeholders to separate waste at source for easier recycling ahead of this year’s fourth national clean-up campaign tomorrow. Speaking to Daily News yesterday, Ema national spokesperson Amkela Sidange said the environmental conservation authority had embarked on a waste management education drive, taking to social media to teach communities about good waste management practices. She said a recycling culture helped reduce the amount of waste matter going to landfills and also the reuse of useful materials while reducing increasing carbon footprints and resource waste. “So far, it has been costly for the country not to adopt best waste management practices. We have had water borne diseases that could have been avoided had we adopted best waste management practices. We have flash floods now and again due to clogging of storm drains. The beauty of our country is taken away when there is dumping all over,” Sidange said.  She further noted that people could avoid paying heavy fines for dumping through recycling. “There are cost implications if we do not practice best behaviour in waste management. People can get heavy fines for dumping and burning waste, yet recycling waste and reusing some of these materials is free and actually good for the environment. “As we are having our national clean-up campaign this Friday the first of April, we urge all those who will be taking part in the campaign to remember good waste management practice and separate waste as they are collecting,” she noted. Sidange invited Zimbabweans across the country as well as corporates to continue supporting the initiative through cleaning up areas in their vicinity. “A lot of valuable items can be made from recycling and reusing waste material. This saves our planet and helps slow down the filling up of landfill sites. Separating waste at source makes it easy for people in waste collection so that they can recycle what’s recyclable while discarding what is not.” Andile Tshuma in BULAWAYO