THE Australian government says it is committed to partner Zimbabwe to improve women visibility in decision making processes and end violence against females. Speaking during the Institute of Corporate Directors of Zimbabwe training for inspirational women in Harare recently, Australian ambassador Bronte Moules said her country was committed to break gender inequalities in Zimbabwe. “Promoting gender equality is smart economics and the right thing to do. We can’t transform our world unless the place of women within is transformed. “Through our embassy here in Harare, we embed equality and inclusion in all we do, inside and outside of the embassy.   “This year, I was privileged to celebrate International Women’s Day with Campaign for Female Education (CAMFED) through a function at our embassy, which showcased how, through community-based mentorship programmes, CAMFED is increasing education and livelihood options for girls and women in rural Zimbabwe, including in terms of coping with the effects of climate change. “On climate change and sustainable development generally, we’re focused on ensuring gender-responsive action and policy.” She said the Australian government had a vast of businesses and funding which is helping low income women in Zimbabwe.  These projects include Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research (ACIAR), ENGAGE, Young Africa Zimbabwe and Mobility Africa, among others. The NGOs support small scale women in agriculture to boost their products and to help them create markets locally and internationally. “When we talk about bias, and women’s experience with bias, there are many all too familiar points that feature.  Common, ongoing points, which I’m sure many of us have experienced, include women have to work harder to be heard,  an idea or proposal put forward by a female at a meeting, can be simply overlooked or actively dismissed,” Moules said. She also bemoaned that   harassment and discrimination continued in the country and in some contexts with impunity. “Progress has and continues to be made on all these points.  There are fantastic government programmes, civil society groups, female role models across all sectors, as well as the all-important male champions, helping us to make great strides,” she said. by  Brighton Muronzereyi  and Rutendo Ngara STAFF WRITERS