POLICE are investigating a case where six armed robbers attacked two family members while demanding cash in Bulawayo. In a statement yesterday, national police spokesperson Paul Nyathi said the police had since arrested one of the robbers. “The Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) confirms the arrest of John Mhere, 34, in connection with a robbery case which occurred at CSC Willsgroove Feedlot Cement Side, Bulawayo, on March 22, 2022,” Nyathi said. According to Nyathi, the suspect — together with five others who are still at large — stormed the home armed with a machete, spear and axes before attacking two complainants while demanding cash.  “The victims screamed for help and their neighbours managed to apprehend John Mhere while the other suspects sped off in their gate-away blue Honda Fit vehicle,” Nyathi said. In a different case, the police in Muzarabani arrested Larnore Zhakata, 35, for possession of 400 bags of charcoal without a permit. “The contraband was intercepted at Muzarabani Boomgate in a DAF truck AFJ 2196 which was destined for Harare,” said the police. Meanwhile, a 29-year-old man from Matshalaga in Zvishavane was yesterday slapped with 30 months behind bars for having sexual intercourse with a 13-year-old minor. The man, who cannot be named to protect the identity of the minor, was arraigned before Zvishavane magistrate Archie Wochiunga. The accused pleaded guilty to the charges while professing his love for the minor.  The court heard that the two had been in a love affair when they reportedly slept together in December 2021. It was the State’s case that on a date not known by the court, but during the month of December 2021, the minor was manning her mother’s vegetable stall at Matshalaga Township when her alleged lover approached her and asked for sex. It was heard that the two then left the vegetable stall unattended and walked to a nearby bush where they had sex. Upon returning to the stall, the Form 2 pupil’s mother discovered that her child was not there and she started searching around, the court heard. As a result, she was reportedly tipped off by some people that her daughter had been seen holding hands with a man heading to the bush.  Upon getting to the bush, the court heard that the mother found her daughter in the man’s arms. The daughter confessed that they were having sex.  The matter was reported to the police leading to the arrest of the accused.