NATIONAL Arts Council of Zimbabwe (Nacz) is set to host a validation workshop for the draft music strategy that has been formulated by stakeholders in the music sector tomorrow. Rodney Ruwende, Nacz marketing and communications manager said all is set for the event. “The validation workshop — the penultimate stage of the strategy creation process — seeks to get stakeholder input, feedback for, and broad endorsement of the draft strategy in particular on the analysis, findings, recommendations and suggested actions for the Zimbabwe music sector,” Ruwende said. The workshop is expected to be attended by key stakeholders in the arts.   “All key stakeholders in music will take part in the validation workshop including members of the national team, music producers, promoters, music managers, artists and music critics who include journalists from across the country,” he said.    The validation workshop will be facilitated by Experts Yarri Camara (Burkina Faso) and Farai Mupfunya (Zimbabwe) who were seconded to the project under the European Union/Unesco Expert Facility on the Governance of Culture in Developing Countries. “Camara arrived in the country on March 17 and has already held meetings with the Ministry of Youth Sport Arts and Recreation, and Nacz officials. During her stay, she will also hold meetings with programme implementing partners EU and Unesco as well as other government ministries and agencies critical for the success of the music strategy,” Ruwende said.   The strategy-making process which began in 2020 has already witnessed the production of a situational analysis of the Zimbabwe Music sector and a survey on the consumption of music patterns in the country. “The robust process included the hosting of virtual information-gathering meetings with music industry professionals in Nigeria and South Africa as well as physical visits to South Africa by Nacz officials, a Unesco Expert and strategy drafting team member. “The strategy is part of broader development efforts in the Zimbabwean Cultural and Creative Industries (CCI) sector and seeks to create a robust, adaptive, creative and economically sustainable music sector in Zimbabwe.” he development of a music strategy for the local music sector dovetails with the 2020-2030 National Cultural and Creative Industries Strategy (NCCIS) which recognises the pivotal role of CCIs in driving national economic development and employment creation.