VICE PRESIDENT Constantino Chiwenga’s ex-wife Marry, pictured, accused of supplying false information that he had consented to wed at a time he was ill, will know her fate today when magistrate Lazini Ncube delivers judgment. Allegations against Marry are that in 2019 Marry made a false representation to then Judge President of the High Court George Mutandwa Chiweshe that Chiwenga had consented to wed under the Marriage Act 5:11 on July 2, 2019 at their place of residence in Borrowdale Brooke, Harare. Marry allegedly submitted copies of national identity documents of both parties to Chiweshe without the knowledge and consent of Chiwenga. In her defence, Marry said she could not coerce an entire adult to enter into a marriage without his consent and contends that the prosecution is part of her continued persecution through the use of the criminal justice system, all done in an endeavour to force her to abandon her rights in the pending matrimonial action before the High Court.  The other trial in which she is accused of assaulting their maid continued yesterday with witnesses giving conflicting statements which her lawyer says shows that the case is a fabrication.  Beatrice Mtetwa, while questioning one of the witnesses Gresham Virukai, said the “contradictions are a result of a dispute between the accused and her husband”. Also cross examining another witness Batsirai Furukiya challenging him on why his testimony differed from that of the complainant Delight Munyoro, Mtetwa said the contradiction shows that the case was made up. “The reason you (Furukiya) and the complainant are telling different stories is because this is a made up story,” Mtetwa charged.  Allegations are that Marry and Munyoro met at a school when Munyoro had gone to collect the children and Marry started shouting at Munyoro accusing her of being a witch, allegedly saying “you are a witch and I can’t allow a witch to take care of my children”. Munyoro told the court that Marry struck her once on the cheek with the backside of her hand and that she sustained a cut on the left side of her mouth and one of her teeth was shaking that she had to seek treatment having reported to the police first. Furukiya yesterday told the court that Marry assaulted Munyoro with a half fist and denied seeing her swollen hands or rings. He said he is the one who restrained the two from the scuffle which, however, differed with Virukai narration, who said he is the one who stopped the fight. Marry denied the allegations saying her health condition, characterised by swollen hands, she could not have slapped Munyoro saying the allegations are an attempt to frustrate her.