PLATINUM mining giant, Mimosa Mining Company, on Friday handed over 100 cattle to chiefs Mapanzure and Mafala as part of supporting artificial insemination programme aimed at improving the quality of cattle in rural Zvishavane. The cattle included 50 bulls and 50 heifers which the traditional leaders divided among the two equally. Speaking during the handover ceremony at Chief Mafala’s kraal, Mimosa head of human resources George Mawere said the gesture is part of the company’s corporate social responsibility, and also a fulfilment of a pledge it made to assist government in improving the quality of the herd in Zvishavane and Mberengwa districts. “Mimosa today (Friday) is handing over 50 bulls and 50 heifers to traditional leaders as part of giving back to the community. However, the most important aspect is that as a company we are in partnership with the government and we pledged to assist in improving the quality of the herd through supporting artificial insemination programmes in the two districts,” he said. Mawere said the programme will assist in breeding drought and disease-resistant animals.   Zvishavane-Ngezi legislator Dumezweni Mahwite hailed the move by Mimosa.  “We are grateful to Mimosa for this donation for it is critical not just for the two districts but for the nation as a whole. This will help us contribute to the national herd which assists in achieving vision 2030 of becoming a middle income economy through sustainable agriculture,” he said. Mahwite also applauded the company for giving back to the community. “It is pleasing to note that Mimosa is making sure communities are also benefiting from the extraction of minerals in their land,” he said. Chief Mafala also appreciated Mimosa’s gesture saying it will go a long way in improving the district’s herd. Mimosa, Agriculture ministry and the Zimbabwe Agricultural Society (Zas) partnered on a Livestock Revitalisation Programme through artificial insemination of cattle in Mberengwa and Zvishavane. The Platinum miner was roped in as a funding partner, government as implementing partners with Zas providing the technical knowhow. The programme aims at producing drought tolerant breeds like Mashona and Tuli which can survive natural region four and also resist diseases like tick borne. For accountability purposes, chiefs are made custodians of the livestock while the Veterinary department assists with artificial insemination.