AFRO-FUSION artiste Pah Chihera has featured in a new web movie titled Pipeline, which is her third project after Tete Nemuroora and Gehena Harina Moto. The first movie Tete Nemuroora was released in 2017 while Gehena Harina Moto in 2020.  “I am so excited to be part of the Pipeline cast and I would like to express my gratitude to Zambezi Motion Pictures who are behind the movie for having faith in me and giving me the platform to showcase my acting skills alongside such seasoned actors.  “I am really enjoying working with them and I am so looking forward to working with them in future,” the mother of one said.  Born Pamhidzai Mbirimi — 31 years ago, Pah Chihera said it was easy for her to cross the floor from music to acting.  “I believe every musician is an actor or actress. Art has one language despite various disciplines. For me, it was easy to cross the floor into acting and if given the opportunity, it is my wish to continue doing both,” she said. Pah Chihera, who hogged limelight in 2013 after releasing Runonzi Rudo together with the late Prince Musarurwa, was inspired by the works of the late Phillip ‘‘Paraffin’’ Mushangwe. “I grew up watching Paraffin drama on television and that inspired me a lot. The guy was just something else,” said the Mbavha Yerudo singer. The new movie featuring Pah Chihera, which was directed by Melgin Tafirenyika and scripted by Mapfumo Katsaya in partnership with Tendai Makiwa, revolves around the lives of three childhood friends who are lured by a trusted member of society into criminal activities. Apart from Pah Chihera, the experienced cast includes Katsaya Kumbirai Mutsindikwa, Claude Nyakauru, Arthur Antonio, Pamela Dzvinamurungu, Blessing Simata, Nyasha Gondo and Charles Kamara. According to the producer of the film — Jonathan Marerwa — Pipeline will premiere mid-next month. “Pipeline was filmed across Harare in Hatfield, Manresa, Chisipite and Mabvuku and it will be out in April on Good Friday.  “It is one of the several projects we have lined up this year. “Next month we will be filming Prayers which is a feature film. Then in August we will do a telenovela called Checkmate followed by another one in December called Blood, Thorns and Roses.  “Our telenovelas will be 25 – 30 episodes long respectively with a running time of 23 minutes,” said Marerwa. by  Tanyaradzwa Marabada ENTERTAINMENT WRITER marabadat@dailynews.co.zw