INDEPENDENT television channel, 3Ktv, has become a hit with thousands of Zimbabweans who are already enamoured by its riveting content — a week after its historic launch. Yesterday some of the viewers told the Daily News On Sunday that  they had been watching 3Ktv since it began broadcasting last Monday. The television channel is broadcasting on  both MultiChoice’s DStv and digital terrestrial television (DTT) platforms. On DStv, the 24-hour channel is on Channel 293, and is accessible to all bouquets offered by Africa’s leading entertainment company — from Premium through to Lite.  Daily News On Sunday’s Rumbidzai Ngwenya spoke to some of the jubilant viewers who praised the new television channel for its high-quality programming and topnotch picture quality. Shantel Mangoro (19) from Kuwadzana. “The channel is nice. The picture quality and content of the programmes are exceptional. Keep up the good work 3Ktv.” Prince Tsoroma (20) from Morris Depot said the new channel was his new favourite. “3K is a great channel that I have been watching since Monday. Everything about the channel is way better than what we have been used to watching — talk about the content and picture quality. “The channel is definitely the best Zimbabwe has ever had. I am loving it. We just hope for more new content along the way.”  Faith Komicho (24) from Darwendale. “I am so excited by  3Ktv. We never expected something so exceptional like this from Zimbabwe. “The channel is the best and we love the programmes. My favourite is ‘Tangled’ and I don’t miss any episode. “My mom is also a big fan and she is in her 50’s. I wish she was here to tell you how much she loves the channel.” Ruth Komicho (31) described the channel as a family TV that offered a variety of shows for all age groups. “Everybody at home loves the channel. We have kids programmes … current affairs … reality shows and dramas. “So,  everyone has a place to fit. Well done 3Ktv, the channel is more entertaining than anything we ever produced in Zimbabwe.” Rutendo Moyo (33) from Mufakose. “3Ktv is a great channel. There is so much entertainment like dramas, soapies and cartons. In every way the channel is lit. The picture quality is also perfect. So far no complaints at all, we are happy viewers”. Abigail Huch (33) from Epworth. “The new channel is great. We love it. I’m more into dramas and soapies which I have so far fallen in love with. The channel also has better picture quality and colour!” The new independent television station, 3Ktv, went  live on Monday, following its rip-roaring launch in Harare last weekend,  the first licensed free-to-air private station to operate in the country since television was first introduced in the then Southern Rhodesia in November 1960. The station is a sister venture to Zimbabwe’s iconic and number one business newspaper, The Financial Gazette, as well as the inimitable Daily News and the Daily News On Sunday.