POLICE in Bulawayo last week arrested a suspected serial rapist who allegedly molested 17 juveniles. In Marondera, the police nabbed a man in connection with the murder and rape of nine women. Several cases of rape have of late been reported across the country, sparking debate on what should be done to curb the scourge of rape — a case of violence, not passion. Rape has become a cancer!  We frown at the increase in violence against women and children, particularly rape cases across the country and call for concerted efforts from those in authority and all citizens to stem the tide. Ours is slowly becoming an abnormal society short of mob-rule only. However, in dealing with the scourge of rape it will not help the country, victims or perpetrators of this heinous crime to use emotions in trying to find lasting solutions to what has become a national problem. While capital punishment or castration as some sections of society are advocating could be deterrent measurers against would-be offenders, it is vital that whatever solution this country finally settles for has a scientific foundation upon which it is anchored. We cannot just come up with a haphazard solution from the blue without scientific proof that there will be positive change to the problem. The government should, therefore, channel resources for research into the violation of women, children as well as men. Emotions do not run countries and solutions made in anger normally return to bite their creators. President Emmerson Mnangagwa has publicly indicated his revulsion at the crime of rape, and even gone on to call for stiffer measures against male offenders. However, nobody has said what should happen to female offenders hence the solutions we are all proffering are neither holistic nor well thought out. There is a need for clear national guidelines and a plan of action to root out this rot that is eating at the very core of who we are as a society. There are issues to do with poverty and economic exclusion driving our people to the edge and ultimately to the break down of our social fabric. We also need to create institutions that deal not only with victims, but also perpetrators who are also victims of societal socio-cultural and economic woes. Knee-jerk reactions should never replace rational and scientific thinking and processes.