Nyasha Kunyiswa nyashak@dailynews.co.zw THE National Blood Services Zimbabwe (NBSZ) has lined up national blood donation galas around the country to boost their reserves ahead of the Easter holidays. NBSZ blood bank’s chief executive Lucy Marowa told the Daily News yesterday that at least five such blood collection centres had been established in Harare, Bulawayo, Gweru, Mutare and Masvingo.  This, Marowa said, had been necessitated by the fact that schools, their traditional major blood collection sources would be closed on Friday and there was a danger that collection targets could be missed. “These galas will boost blood collection and for the Harare mixed galas slated for April 9, we are anticipating 250 blood donors to come through. “Statistically, this implies over 1 250 blood donors are to be engaged through nationwide galas, which will contribute immensely to our blood stocks. For the month of April, 80 collection sites across Zimbabwe have been identified. We anticipate an engagement of over 1 000 blood donors as well,” Marowa said. She expressed hope that with the support the NBSZ had been promised by local companies, they should be able to collect enough blood that would cushion them during the school holidays. “Corporates all over Zimbabwe will be roped in the blood drives as well.  To date, over 15 companies have committed to allow their employees donate blood during the April holidays and beyond. If all these logistical arrangements materialise, we will never be short of blood. “More importantly, it is vital to note that due to a lot of travelling during April holidays, there are more cases of reported road accidents. This will contribute to high demand of blood; henceforth we appeal to all Zimbabweans eligible to donate blood to play their part by donating blood in order to curb blood shortages.” NBSZ communications officer Kudakwashe Chidziya also said they were doing their utmost best to prepare for the eventualities that come with a holiday of Easter’s magnitude. “On a daily basis, we have a set target of collecting 316 blood units nationwide for the Easter holidays. We need at least 2 000 units for the four days though on other ordinary four days of any month we need 1 364 units. “This is because demand for blood during this holiday is high due to increased numbers of accidents recorded in comparison with other days. This also implies that apart from the ordinary monthly collection target of 9 480 units, for the month of April the collection target is pegged at 10 000 units. As an organisation we are always in need of more blood supplies and we appreciate the current blood supply though the levels of high demand make us appeal for more blood. Blood group O+ has more blood donors but it also has more patients hence the demand for blood group O+ is high as compared to the other three blood groups. Generally, there is a need for continuous donation of all blood groups,” Chidziya said.