Rumbidzai Ngwenya ngwenyar@dailynews.co.zw OK ZIMBABWE yesterday launched its grand challenge promotion for this year in which a Ford Ranger worth over US$72 000 is up for grabs at the grand finale at Borrowdale Race Course in June. The promotion, which kicked off yesterday, and running under the theme ‘‘Race 2 Happiness’’ will run in OK Zimbabwe’s 52 shops nationwide until June 4.  With the support of over 40 suppliers, 43 Nissan NP200 vehicles will also be won on the race day. The promotion also includes multiple chances of winning including a ‘Shop easy’ car and weekly draws where grocery vouchers will be won.. Speaking at the launch of the promotion in Harare, OK Zimbabwe chief executive Max Karombo said the promotion which kicked off yesterday and running under the theme, ‘‘Race 2 Happiness’’ was a way of giving back to its “loyal customers”. “We are excited to launch the 2022 OK Grand Challenge. The theme for this year is a direct link between the iconic horse race and our re-imagined vision. “We aim to create theatres of happiness, by planting smiles on our customers, suppliers, shareholders, employees and ultimately the communities we operate in. “We are extremely grateful to our customers and suppliers for believing in us and for making this year’s edition possible. Thank you to thousands of customers who walk through the doors of our stores every single day. The 2022 OK grand challenge is here and we urge everyone to visit our stores and experience for themselves the great savings at hand,” Karombo said. He said the promotion was open to all including those in the rural areas. “In as much as we have gone digital to say customers can register online we have also engaged service providers so that those without smart phones can also register through a USSD code. “It’s a life changing and non-discriminatory promotion where we are saying every customer is a potential winner. “Even those in the diaspora can buy groceries for their relatives back home and upon collection of the groceries; they can still enter the promotion.” Last year Sibusisiwe Masaka received a brand new Toyota Hilux twin cab vehicle for the grand prize, while Dryden Chikupe and Masset Chitapaza, Caleb Kabungaidze as well as perennial punter Clemence Muhle walked away with the $1, 5 million cash prizes sponsored by suppliers. The OK Zimbabwe grand challenge has been running for the past 33 years.