THE government has urged Bulawayo residents to wear the national dress during the independence day celebrations saying the fabric which represents the national dress is now available in a number of Bulawayo outlets. This comes after this year’s national independence celebrations are to be held in Bulawayo. Speaking to the media during a press conference yesterday, minister of women affairs Sithembiso Nyoni said the fabric can now be easily accessible. “We are encouraging everyone to wear the national dress on independence day because the fabric is now available. We have increased the distribution centres in Bulawayo, and so now we retailers such as Pamela Creations, Mollina Dube, Esats, Art Gallery and Heavenly Rose distributing the national dress. “Initially it was being sold through ambassadors throughout the country but this proved not to be enough. Also some of the ambassadors were selling the fabric in United States dollars which meant that the fabric was too expensive for most people.  “Now we have gone back to the manufacturer who is King Fisher and they are now making a good quality with a reasonable price which is $700 a metre but we are still negotiating that maybe it could still be cheaper,” said Nyoni. She urged people who intend to be distributors to go straight to King Fisher and order in bulk and distribute.  Nyoni said the national fabric is not about a particular political party but it represents all ethnic groups in the country.  “It’s also made of national colours and our national symbol, which is Zimbabwe,” she said. Speaking at the same meeting Bulawayo provincial minister Judith Ncube said she appreciated having the national dress available in local shops as people were finding it difficult to get the fabric. “People have been coming to my office inquiring about the fabric meaning they were finding it difficult to get to our ambassadors hence the ministry saw fit for us to identify some shops where the fabric can be found. So we are very grateful and excited that the fabric is now available,” said Ncube. Hazel Marimbiza in BULAWAYO