THE government has warned citizens to guard against malaria as some of the country’s provinces are still recording high cases of the disease. This comes after government is conducting house spraying in all the 10 provinces of Zimbabwe as well as providing protective bed nets to places with outbreaks as a way to curb malaria. In a statement yesterday, social behaviour change communications officer in the ministry of Health, Fortunate Manjoro urged the public to be aware of malaria signs and symptoms of the disease. “Although malaria cases are on the decrease, the ministry of Health through the weekly surveillance report would like to advice the public that Mashonaland Central, Mashonaland East and Manicaland provinces are recording the highest cases of malaria accounting for 77 percent of the total 3066 cases recorded so far in April 2022,” Manjoro said. “We urge the public to know the malaria signs and symptoms include fever, headache, general body pains, hot and cold spells, nausea, vomiting and loss of appetite and anyone experiencing these signs and symptoms should go for testing for malaria. Delays in seeking treatment for malaria leads to severe diseases which may lead to deaths.” She said pregnant women should ensure they get malaria tablets early. “All pregnant women in high to moderate malaria transmission areas should book early and receive tablets to prevent malaria monthly till they deliver,” Manjoro said. She said the ministry of Health is working hard in order to meet the Global Malaria Strategy 2030 targets which are to reduce malaria case incidence by at least 90%, reduce malaria mortality rate by at least 90%, eliminate malaria in at least 35 countries as well as prevent a resurgence of malaria in all countries that are malaria-free. Meanwhile, cumulative number of malaria cases for 2022 from week one to week 12 in Manicaland were at 5891, Mashonaland Central 5824, Mashonaland East 3941,Masvingo 2323,Mashonaland West 734,Matabeleland North 369, Matabeleland South 203, Midlands 138,Harare 57 and Bulawayo 16.