POLICE have nabbed an alleged notorious armed robber for committing a series of armed robberies and murder in Harare for the past four months. According to the police, Aaron Francisco Machona, 37, had acquired a stand, built a three roomed house in Chitungwiza, bought a vehicle and paid US$10 000 lobola for his wife through proceeds of armed robbery. The police alleged Machona was a lone operator. “On December 9 2021, at about 2am the suspect stormed a house in Uplands Waterfalls, Harare, and captured two complainants while armed with a pistol and wearing a balaclava. He stole property worth US$4 160 and drove away in the complainants silver BMW 318 vehicle,” the police alleged. The police also revealed that on January 30 2022, the suspect invaded another home along Ruwa Avenue Waterfalls, Harare, where he attacked a couple whom he threatened to shoot with a pistol before he fired one shot on the roof.  “He ran away after noticing some light rays filtering through the room before stealing anything,” the police said. According to the police, on March 9 2022, the suspect, who was armed with an unidentified pistol while covering his face with a balaclava, stormed another house in Uplands Waterfalls, Harare, through an unlocked door and attacked three occupants, while demanding cash.  “The complainants surrendered US$60, and phones. However, the suspect kept on demanding for more cash while assaulting one of the complainant’s all over the body with a stick. One of the victims, Jubilee Ustiwegota, 30, tried to stop the suspect resulting in Machona drawing a pistol before shooting her once in the head. Ustiwegoata died instantly,” the police alleged. The police said on April 13 2022, the suspect broke into a house in Uplands Waterfalls, Harare, and tortured three complainants while armed with a pistol and wearing a balaclava and he stole property worth US$1 302 and left the complainants locked up in a wardrobe. According to the police, on April 22 2022, police detectives spotted Machona’s silver Toyota Runx vehicle and pursued it resulting in a high speed chase.  The suspect was eventually arrested at Chigovanyika St Mary’s Chitungwiza, the police said.