TWO cops have been nabbed on allegations of conniving with suspected bogus Central Intelligence Organisation (CIO) operatives in extorting a director in the Information Communication Technology ministry after accusing her of proceeding against a red traffic light at State House, Harare, and threatening her with arrest. The cops, Sinikiwe Phiri and Pirate Mazarire, were charged together with Cleopas Mutamba and Passmore Tsodzo, accused of trailing Beullah Chirume before accusing her of violating road traffic rules and demanding US$300.   It is the State’s case that on April 6 at around 9am, Chirume was coming from Sam Levy Village where she had withdrawn money from a bank and she was driving along 7th Street towards the city centre and the suspects were trailing her.  She reportedly drove and parked at a furniture shop along Samora Machel Avenue and the suspects parked their vehicle on the adjacent parking bay. It is alleged that before she got off, Mutamba approached her and identified himself as a member of the CIO and that he knew that she was a director in the government and he was there to arrest her for proceeding through a red traffic light at the State House. Allegations are that Chirume denied the allegation, but Mutamba insisted before he was joined by his other colleagues who threatened her with arrest unless she gives them US$300 Mutamba and Phiri allegedly told Chirume to get into their vehicle to negotiate with their bosses, referring to Tsodzo and Mazarire, and she complied hoping to explain things out, but to no avail. It is alleged that the suspects went into her vehicle with Mutamba sitting on the front passenger seat while Phiri sat on the rear left passenger seat while demanding cash. Chirume reportedly took her wallet and gave the two US$175 and the suspects took her wallet and searched it before taking US$17 and $200 and threw the wallet back at her. It is alleged that they ordered her to drive while their car was following behind and when they passed Fifth Street, they ordered her to stop to allow Mutamba and Phiri to disembark. Chirume later reported the matter at a police base at Five Avenue.