Brighton Muronzereyi muronzereyib@dailynews.co.zw GOVERNMENT is set to import more electricity from Zambia to ease power shortages as the country approaches the winter season. Speaking during a post-Cabinet briefing in Harare yesterday, Energy minister Zhemu Soda said they have dedicated 100 megawatts for the winter wheat programme and they were in talks with Zambia for more electricity imports. “Traditionally we get our electricity from Mozambique and South Africa, but we are going to have additional power from Zambia and our talks are at an advanced stage and we are going to dedicate 100 megawatts for our farmers,” Soda added. Soda’s sentiments come after acting Information minister Jenfan Muswere also said the government is completing a number of energy generating projects to end the current power crisis. “The expansion of Hwange 7 and 8 (600megawatts) in Matabeleland North, Hwange District, is at 82.02 percent overall completion and the Mabvuku Ethanol storage facility in Harare is now at 95 percent overall completion. Meanwhile, Muswere added that the government is creating a diaspora-friendly environment policy framework that will assist the country to harness social, economic, political and cultural dividends which would help spur development in the country. “The promotion of investments by diasporas in their country is part of the Second Republic’s engagement and re engagement thrust,  diaspora remittances have been one of the key foreign currency contributors in the past.  ‘‘The development of a comprehensive policy and strategies will unlock knowledge and skills transfer; diaspora direct investment; and philanthropic works. “Government, on the other hand, will avail industrial shells and land to eligible Diasporas for the construction of specialist hospitals and industrial parks and any other areas or sectors and government will also facilitate the establishment of joint ventures between Diasporas and landowners for the production and export of high quality agricultural products,” Muswere said. “Cabinet resolved that an inter-ministerial committee chaired by the minister of Foreign Affairs and International Trade and deputised by the minister of Finance and Economic Development be put in place. “The committee is mandated to review the National Diaspora Policy as well as develop robust strategies and interventions for diaspora engagement.  “Furthermore, the Cabinet committee will have sector specific sub-committees which will be mandated to deal with issues pertaining to that sector,” Muswere added.