SOUTH Africa-based airline, Airlink, has launched scheduled direct services between Durban and Harare. The direct flights on the route from Durban’s King Shaka International Airport will operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays. In a statement yesterday, Airlink managing director Rodger Foster said the service is set to boost trade and tourism activities between the two cities. “Harare and Durban are important commercial centres and key Airlink markets. This brand new route linking the two cities will be our third direct service to Zimbabwe’s capital, along with our flights from Johannesburg and Cape Town.  “We are certain that the new service will promote commerce and tourism between the cities and between KwaZulu-Natal and Zimbabwe. Having non-stop flights on the route means greater convenience and options for travellers who want to save time and avoid connecting at Johannesburg,” he said. Airlink will operate one of its modern Embraer ERJ135 Regional Jets on the route. Fares include a 20kg free economy class checked-in luggage allowance plus a 15kg sporting equipment allowance. hAirlink flights are scheduled to provide convenient connections with other domestic and regional services as well as with long-haul flights provided by a constellation of global airline partners. In an interview at Airlinks’ inaugural flight from Durban yesterday, Airports Company of Zimbabwe chief executive officer Tawanda Gusha said the increasing air traffic bodes well for the country. “We are happy that Airlink has introduced a third route in Zimbabwe. We want to attract more airlines because we are increasing our capacity to be able to handle more passengers. “So there is scope for us to keep on pushing more airlines to come so that we have more passengers that are coming into the country. Business people, tourists visiting the country, and returning residents will also increase. With more airlines coming, there will be more competition and choices for travellers. Where there is a choice, fares are likely to be more affordable.” Gusha said research has shown that where countries improve infrastructure, passenger traffic is also likely to improve also. “As you are aware we are working with Jiangsu International for RG Mugabe International expansion. I must say Jiangsu are doing really well and the expansion works are progressing in a positive direction. “The contractor – Jiangsu – also did a good job at the Victoria Falls International Airport. We are confident that, we will be able to give the travelling public a world-class airport experience, so we expect there will be more people that will be passing through this airport than what is currently the case,” he added. Airlink’s main business is to provide services between smaller, under-served towns and larger hub airports. It has since expanded to offer flights on larger, mainline routes. The airline has an ever-expanding network of over 60 routes across 50+ destinations.