FINANCE and Economic Development minister Mthuli Ncube,  will be the keynote speaker at the Daily News breakfast forum to be held in Harare on Thursday next week. The crucial business meeting, to run under the theme ‘‘Reinforcing sustainable economic recovery and resilience in a period of volatility, uncertainty, complexity, and ambiguity (VUCA)’’, will look at pressing domestic, regional  and global developments, including the Russia-Ukraine war which has triggered product shortages and price hikes in many countries. According to the Associated Newspapers of Zimbabwe (ANZ), publishers of the Daily News and the Daily News on Sunday, the indaba will be attended by economists, captains of industry, politicians, industrialists, non-governmental organisations, policy makers and business leaders. “The crucial event will provide the business community the opportunity to get clarifications from the government on challenges that have been brought to the fore by the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war, currency instability and rising inflation.  “The breakfast forum is, therefore, timely as it has come at a time when the business community is grappling with the effects of the Russia-Ukraine war which has seen prices of many products rising globally. “With the war showing no sign of ending, the local business community is understandably keen to know the measures the government intends to put in place to cushion Zimbabweans,” said ANZ commercial director Lewis Chikurunhe. He described the imminent event, expected to be attended by at least 150 people, as a ‘‘must-attend’’ for all business leaders seeking solutions to lead their businesses profitably in a very challenging environment. “This is going to be a crucial meeting. It is about giving practical solutions to those in the public sector so that they are better prepared to confront issues blighting our economy. To help the Finance minister adequately address the issues at hand, we have put in place a high-profile panel, which includes leaders of business member organisations and industry associations,” Chikurunhe said. The Business Breakfast Forum is an interactive platform for business and policymakers that the country’s leading daily newspaper brand has hosted over the past couple of years as part of its contribution to the development of the country.