Gerald Mutsvairo SPORTS WRITER mutsvairog@dailynews.co.zw BULAWAYO giants Highlanders will be out to end their winless away record this season when they travel to face resurgent FC Platinum at Mandava Stadium in a Castle Lager Premiership match this afternoon. Bosso, who are walking with a spring in their step following Monday’s narrow 1-0 win over bitter rivals Dynamos to be crowned Uhuru Cup champions, are yet to get a win away from home in this current campaign. In all their six away matches this season Highlanders have three draws while the other three matches ended in defeats. And as they prepare for FC Platinum, who are sitting on a two-game winning streak, Highlanders coach Mandla Mpofu has challenged his boys to bring their A game and collect maximum points away from home. “We want to go out and get a win. We haven’t won from home this season,” Mpofu said. “We are taking them seriously, we can’t undermine them. They are a big club; they have won almost everything in Zimbabwe.  “I would like the boys to carry the same spirit and attitude that they showed against Dynamos. “We want to go there and play our usual passing game. We know FC Platinum also want to pass the ball around just like so we are looking forward to an exciting match.”| FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza has already reckoned he is expecting a fired-up Bosso side. The platinum miners will be up against some of their former sons in Rahman Kutsanzira,  Nqobizitha Masuku and Stanely Ngala. Masuku and Kutsanzira will, however, have to pass late fitness tests after picking up knocks in game against the Glamour Boys. ‘With Bosso winning the Independence trophy, I think it’s a massive boost for them. I hope it’s going to be a very interesting game despite the chilly weather,” Mapeza noted. “Our worry now is about the condition of the pitch because it has been raining since Tuesday but I hope it’s going to be a very good game of football.  “The Easter gave us a break and we needed that break, but somewhere somehow we had some guys who were carrying some knocks. It was good for us because we needed time to recover despite getting the break after positive results. We just hope we can carry on with the momentum. It’s a different game altogether we can’t talk about what happened last year.”