CONSUMERS will not be able to buy prepaid electricity starting today up to Sunday as the Zimbabwe Electricity Transmission and Distribution Company (ZETDC) will be carrying out maintenance on the vending system.  In a statement yesterday, ZETDC said they aim to improve operational efficiency and quality of service delivery. “The Zimbabwe Electricity Transmission and Distribution Company (ZETDC) would like to advise its valued customers countrywide that the Prepaid Electricity Vending system will undergo a scheduled maintenance and upgrading exercise from Friday, 22nd to Sunday, 24th April 2022 to improve its operational efficiency and quality of service delivery. “ZETDC further advises that during that planned maintenance period, customers will not be able to purchase electricity units normally and they are encouraged to buy enough power to sustain them during this planned upgrading period. The inconvenience caused is sincerely regretted,” the ZETDC notice read. This comes after the government has assured Zimbabweans that they will import more power from Zambia for winter. Speaking during the post-Cabinet briefing on Tuesday, minister of Energy Zhemu Soda said they have dedicated 100 megawatts for the winter wheat production  “Traditionally we get our electricity from Mozambique and South Africa but we are going to have additional power from Zambia and our talks are at an advanced stage and we are going to dedicate 100 megawatts for farmers,” said Zhemu. Soda’s sentiments came after acting Information minister Jenfan Muswere said the government is completing a number of energy generating projects to end the current power crisis. “The expansion of Hwange 7 and 8 (600megawatts) in Matabeleland North, Hwange District is at 82.02percent overall completion and the Mabvuku Ethanol storage facility in Harare is now at 95percent overall completion.      “Pertaining the Richaw Solar Plant in Gwanda District, Matabeleland South, the nation is informed that the lighting protection installation has been completed at 100percent trenching for the whole plant perimeter now stood at 40percent,” said Muswere.  By Rutendo Ngara  ngarar@gmail.com