ALL is set for the inaugural JamAfro Festival slated tomorrow at Alexandra Sports Club in Harare to be headlined by red-hot South African music star Makhadzi and Jamaican dancehall princess Neelah. The celebrated Amapiano star and Neelah, who jetted into the country on Wednesday, will share the stage with South Africa-based Mr. Brown as well as top local artistes such as Nutty O, Freeman, Suluman Chimbetu, Jah Master, ExQ, Feli Nandi and Juntal . Urban Groove music galore in Kadoma OVER half a dozen urban groove musicians who include Roki, Stunner, Plaxedes, Xtra Large, Trevor Dingo and Shinsoman will entertain the fans at Odyssey in Kadoma tonight.  Pinjisi at work in Domboshava SUNGURA musician Howard Pinjisi and his Orchestra Ndorochena are set to perform at Big Gazebo ( ex-Oak Corner) at Showgrounds in Domboshava tonight. Batanai Gardens hosts Writers and Poets Awards ALL is set for the inaugural Writers and Poets Awards to be held at Batanai Gardens in the capital tonight. The event, hosted by Beyond Today Publishing House, seeks to honour authors and poets and encourage them to work hard for the development of the local arts industry and the country at large. Mannex back at Theatre in the Park RAGGAE artist Mannex and his Zimraggaestra band are set to perform at Theatre in the Park Harare tonight. The event is expected to attract hordes of reggae music fans.  Kunonga dates @23 AWARD-WINNING Afrofusion singer and songwriter Victor Kunonga and his Peace outfit will entertain music fans at a Harare joint called @23 in Malborough tomorrow. JMLT hosts Jah Lammy MUSICIAN Jah Lammy will showcase at #wowfriday, a weekly event hosted Jasen Mphepo Little Theatre (JMLT) in Harare. Ela Gardens brings Unadulterated MUSICAL story-teller and afro-folk comedian Neil Nayar, a travelling singer songwriter from United Kingdom, will perform at Ela Garden in Newlands, Harare tonight as part of his Southern Africa tour. Dubbed Unadulterated, Nayar will perform alongside George the comedian. Tomorrow, Nayar is billed to do another live and unplugged storytelling and comedy session at 132 St Patrick’s Road in Hatfield. Killer T goes uptown CELEBRATED Zimdancehall chanter Killer T, real name Kelvin Kusikwenyu, will entertain fans at Emagumen in Helensvale, Borrowdale in Harare this Sunday. Double Friday at The Boundary TONIGHT the Boundary in Bulawayo will host a show dubbed Double Friday featuring DJ Mzoe, Kead, Hp and Nicky Micks. Tomorrow the joint will host the Sophisticated Saturdays show featuring DJs Ryan, Mzoe and Zet. Pub Lagondola hosts rising hip hop star Msizikay. Msizikay will share the stage with The Shoemaker, CTL, Leezie Tailored Sweeto, OJ and Fritz tomorrow at the above Bulawayo joint. DJs for Park View and Grill official opening DJ Mzoe will battle it out with DJ Zetfactor, DJ CP and DJ Prince at the Park View Bar and Grill official opening tonight in Bulawayo by  Tanyaradzwa Marabada  and Ashley Moyo ENTERTAINMENT WRITERS