Melisa Chatikobo chatikobom@dailynews.co.zw PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa  says the government is pushing to improve the welfare of civil servants which was  negatively affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing thousands of people who gathered at Barbourfields Stadium in Bulawayo on Independence Day on Monday, Mnangagwa said the government is aware that many individuals were left unemployed after Covid-19 ravaged the nation.   “Government stands committed to ensure that our public officers, including those in the health and education sectors, have conditions of service commensurate with their important role in driving the national development of our country. “We also recognise the critical role played by organised workers as well as employer organisations through the Tripartite Negotiating Forum. Government is equally aware of the plight of workers who were affected by staff reductions and retrenchments as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are, therefore, scaling up and strengthening modalities and legislative instruments to protect all workers, including those engaged in domestic service. As we modernise, industrialise and develop our economy, no worker will be left behind,” he said. Mnangagwa added that plans are underway to improve the country’s education sector which was affected by Covid-19. “Following almost two years of unprecedented Covid-19 disruptions, it is pleasing that the education sector has returned to normalcy. “Given that the level of development of a nation is dependent on the teaching and adoption of science, technology and innovation; resources will continue to be channelled towards expanding the availability of science-related infrastructure throughout all schools in the country. This will be complemented by the construction of government boarding schools in each district,” he said. Mnangagwa further said that they are targeting to improve rural livelihoods through industrialisation. “Capacity in the manufacturing sector has increased beyond 65 percent, resulting in locally produced basic consumer goods constituting about 70 percent of the market. Development of rural industrialisation is being prioritised, leveraging on resources within the various unique communities. “Meanwhile, total exports are projected to grow by 10 percent this year, following the penetration of the export market by more of our businesses, including those at the grassroots level. The welfare of surviving veterans of the liberation struggle is, thus, being continually reviewed to accord them decent livelihoods,” he said.