BILLIONAIRE Shaji Ul Mulk has pitched to the authorities the projects his group of companies, Mulk Holdings, would like to undertake in the country. Mulk says he is willing to invest over US$1 billion in five projects in the country, including setting up a modern sports and leisure centre in the resort town of Victoria Falls. Other investments the Dubai-based businessman is keen on investing in are  a cricket stadium,  a smart city in Harare and  a high rise housing development. Mulk arrived in Zimbabwe last week in pursuit of investment opportunities and has since met President Emmerson Mnangagwa. “We sincerely thank you for the wonderful support accorded by you during my current visit to Zimbabwe and all the projects awarded by you to Mulk Holdings international FZC. “Mulk Holdings’ subsidiary sports management company, T Ten Global Sports, is awarded rights to own and execute various formats of cricket leagues including T10 and T20 cricket leagues in Zimbabwe. “We will work out the scheduling through the minister of Sports and Zimbabwe Cricket board and ready to start in October 2022 … Mulk Holdings will launch Mulk e-Health app which will provide world class health services from the comfort of your home and reach every corner of Zimbabwe  — launch can be in September 2022,” Mulk said further. He has also proposed to set up a dedicated company named Zim Mulk Sports and Entertainment Company. “This company established in Victoria Falls will build on the land allotted by Your Excellency, a state- of-the-art cricket stadium with focus on high end real estate and on ground casino and sports betting. He also proposed to embark on digital integration of services in the country. “The ministry of Home Affairs has designed and approved digital integration of various services like the traffic control systems, smart gates at airports and various other services in Zimbabwe. Mulk Holdings and its associates are willing to invest on a BOT (Build Operate Transer) basis for these projects if the rights are granted for 25 years,” he further pitched.   In addition, Mulk proposed to invest in a Block Chain City in the capital, which he said would attract companies and set-up next to the new Parliament in Mount Hampden — where the proposed new  city would be built.  Mulk said this could be fast-tracked, with works being able to commence within three to four months. Meanwhile, the businessman announced that he had appointed  Paul Tempter Tungwarara of Prevail International (Prevail Group) as Mulk Holdings’s country representative. Tungwarara said he was happy to be appointed  a representative of Mulk Holdings in Zimbabwe. “My appointment is a testament of  the belief in young people that they can deliver even in projects of this magnitude. This is an honour and I am excited to be part of the team  that is committing itself to playing a part in the modernization of our country, in line with the aspirations of HE President Emmerson Mnangagwa and his administration. “I am looking forward to be part of the exciting times ahead and  fully play my role as a local citizen in making sure that the projects we have proposed would come to fruition. I will be travelling to Dubai next week to bring in the team of  investors,” Tungwarara said.  During yesterday’s Zanu PF central committee meeting, Mnangagwa said Mulk’s promises were yet another show of confidence in the economy. “Earlier today (yesterday), I concluded a series of meetings with Shaji Ul Mulk who was representing some investors keen on investing in Zimbabwe. Following a successful visit, concrete investments have been identified in the construction of the new smart City in Harare, provision of e- health, construction of leisure and hospitality facilities in Victoria Falls as well as high rise housing developments,” Mnangagwa said.