INDEPENDENT television station, 3Ktv, has proved to be a massive hit at the ongoing Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) in Bulawayo. Over the past three busines days, scores of exhibitors and other visitors — both young and old — have flocked to the popular station’s stand, with many of them expressing their delight about the country’s first private free-to-air television channel. Among the visitors who were at 3Ktv’s stand yesterday was journalist Enos Denhere who described the station’s history-making launch on February 28 this year as the dawn of a new television era in the country. “The coming of 3Ktv has brought new energy into the local media industry which lacked pluralism in the broadcasting sector. “I am very happy to say that I am thoroughly enjoying watching the station, especially the local soapie called Tangled, which delves into relationship matters. “All in all, the station’s programming is up to scratch,” Denhere said. An exhibitor, Ngonidzashe Bakari said he was also delighted to finally meet some of the crew behind the new television station. “I have been wondering about who is behind the 3Ktv having followed it since its launch. My favourite programme is Hurudza as I am a farmer. “The television station is doing very well with regards to both the quality of its programming and pictures, and it has wide news coverage,” he said. A trader at the fair, Innocent Moyo, also said the new channel was “refreshing”. “I watch the television channel and I have fallen in love with a number of programmes — mostly the soapie Tangled, as well as the other one called Sweet 16. They are pretty good shows,” he said. Well-known 3Ktv ambassador and prominent comedian, Carl Joshua Ncube, could not hide his joy as he interacted with visitors to the station’s stand yesterday. “I am super delighted to be part of 3Ktv. Remember, this is the first time the station is exhibiting here and it has done so with a bang as is being proved by its popularity. I am very excited,” he said. As the fair opens its doors to the public today and tomorrow, hordes of people are expected to flood to the popular station’s stand.