WE have just passed the first quarter of 2022 and many can agree that it has been a turbulent term in all spheres — economy and politics. The major detrimental development is the continued political crisis which for decades has stagnated the country’s economy as politicians lost focus on developmental issues. There has been talk of an all-inclusive dialogue to resolve the country’s battery of challenges for too long, and nothing seems to be materialising. Why the talks are not coming into fruition is anyone’s guess given that the country’s main political parties — Zanu PF, Citizens Coalition for Change and the MDC — are agreed to the talks. So are churches and civil society.  It is the hope of many people that as we enter the second quarter of the year and after the country successfully had parliamentary and council by-elections, politicians would see the value of urgent dialogue ahead of the 2023 harmonised polls. This talk of talks should now come to an end, with the dialogue kicking off. We need more action now! Our politicians must focus more on developmental issues and breathe life into the country’s industries and pursue social development. According to the Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries, capacity utilisation levels stands at just over 60 percent. Capacity utilisation needs to be ramped up further. This means politicians must focus more on bread and butter issues so that we get our industries and Zimbabwe working again. If we crank up production, employment will be created and the welfare of the general populace will improve. Political cacophony should not be allowed to arrest national development. We also challenge the ruling Zanu PF and the government to focus on implementation of National Development Strategy 1 rather than the usual talk shop by politicians at rallies. It is painful to note the abundant resources that the country possesses and compare it to the livelihood of the ordinary man on the street. We hope the gospel of beneficiation of resources will be practiced on the ground and Zimbabweans enjoy the fruits of their natural resources. Statistics show that Zimbabwe has 27.5 percent of the world’s diamonds, we are the second in platinum reserves, we have unquantified amounts of gold, chrome and coal and there is no reason for skilled workers to flee to other countries to do menial jobs. We yearn for people oriented policies and avoid sycophancy and unnecessary political fighting.