PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa on Independence Day spoke like a statesman, rallying the nation to close ranks and confront the battery of challenges the country is grappling with. In his address to the nation, Mnangagwa was unequivocal on the need for unity, peace and harmony as catalyst for both social and economic development. “As we celebrate 42 years of our country’s independence, let us never allow divisive tendencies, greed and the pursuit of unpatriotic self-centred political gains to weaken our bond of unity, peace, love and harmony. “Individually and collectively, we have a duty to whole-heartedly serve and work hard for the development and prosperity of our beloved motherland, Zimbabwe. “Let us not grow tired, but keep marching forward with joy, great optimism, determination, zeal and focus in unity, peace and freedom,” Mnangagwa exhorted the nation. This comes as the main opposition parties, MDC led by Douglas Mwonzora and the Citizens Coalition for Change (CCC) headed by Nelson Chamisa, for the first time in a while joined Independence Day celebrations across the country. It also comes as calls for an all-inclusive dialogue to end the country’s political and economic crises are growing louder by the day. It is now incumbent upon the political leaders to use the new found love to celebrate and commemorate national events together to begin a conversation on how to resolve the country’s challenges. The church and the civil society must take advantage of this to nudge for an all-inclusive dialogue in the country. With talks, the country is going nowhere. It will remain trapped in an economic quagmire despite all efforts to revive it. There is a desperate need for political and economic reforms, but those can only be achieved if the country speaks in one voice and works in unity. Shared vision and values would deliver the country from its current evils. There is optimism and hope now that sooner, rather than later, the political gladiators would meet and negotiate the country out of the current challenges because it is politics stupid holding the nation back. The country needs the talks like yesterday before the general elections next year. Several surveys have revealed that the majority of Zimbabweans are not keen on next year’s polls, fearing the countdown to them will be bloody and its outcome would be disputed again, worsening the political and economic situation. Zimbabweans want a negotiated settlement to the political cacophony, create strong institutions and then hold free, fair and credible polls. Given this backcloth, it’s time for Zimbabweans to close ranks and resolve the country’s decades-long political and economic crises.