MODEL Jemima Mandemwa, pictured, flew the country’s flag high in India at the inaugural Miss Environment International pageant finals where she made it into the top five. The latest title for the 22-year old model came along with the ambassadorial role — Flora and Fauna — which will run till next year. “I felt truly honoured to have represented my country at such a prestigious contest. Coming fourth was not my goal but I have learnt to celebrate every win,” Mandemwa said. Mandemwa was crowned Miss Environment Zimbabwe last year which earned her the opportunity to represent the country at a global stage on April 2 in Mumbai. “At the Finale, I completed the contest in the top five as the fourth runner, a feat that came along with the title Flora and Fauna ambassador,” she said. In India, Belgium’s Kayra Wauters was crowned Miss Environment International while Mitchelle Arceo from Palestine and Sky Amelia from South Sudan were adjudicated first and second runners-up respectively. The second runner up title also came along with Biodiversity ambassadorial role. Mandemwa has won seven titles to date in her modelling career since 2018 when she started. “I started modelling at the age of six when I was crowned Miss Little Sunshine at a community pageant in Bulawayo. I have modelled my way up since I was six to being a professional model now,” she said. However, Mandemwa told this publication that it was not all rose for her to be where she is now today. “My biggest challenges had to be on the finance side. It was a real hustle to fund the project but I am proud to say soon after I started my clothing line called Sanguine Femi, I have managed to cater for myself along with the assistance from the organisers of the pageants,” Mandemwa said. Over the years, Mandemwa who is studying towards her Bachelor’s in Finance at the National University of Science and Technology (NUST) has participated in a number of pageants including Miss NUST 2018, Miss Super Globe Africa 2019 and Miss Globe World 2019 in Dubai among others. Tanyaradzwa Marabada ENTERTAINMENT WRITER marabadat@dailynews.co.zw