Ashley Moyo moyoa@dailynews.co.zw ZIMDANCEHALL star Freeman, who is currently trending with the controversial song Robbery, is billed to hold three shows in the United Kingdom (UK) in a fortnight as part of celebrations to mark Zimbabwe’s Independence Day. Freeman, who will be touring the UK for the 16th time since he launched his career in 2008, will share the stage with fellow Zimbabwean Nutty O, Joe The Show, EXQ and Qounfuzed between April 16 and 18.  Freeman’s manager Watson “Boss Watta” Kafelapanjila said the Robbery hit-maker was delighted to have been presented with the opportunity to celebrate Zimbabwe’s freedom day away in the UK. “The shows are meant to celebrate the Zimbabwe Independence Day and we are happy that this time around we are doing it in the UK, which has now become our hunting ground. This is our 16th visit to that country,” Boss Watta said. He added that the popular chanter will kick off his UK tour with a show in Manchester on April 16 before heading to Birmingham where he will perform on the 17th and 18th of April at two different venues.  “We are ready to entertain and interact with our fans in this part of the world as we celebrate Zimbabwe’s Independence,” Freeman’s manager said. Freeman’s gigs in the UK will be preceded by those of fellow Zimbabwean entertainers — Winky D, Mambo Dhuterere, Alick Macheso, Selmor Mtukudzi, Jah Signal, Baba Harare and Nox who are scheduled to perform at the at this year’s edition of Diaspora Insurance Sama Festival which will run between April 15 and 16 in Leicester and London. The 2022 Sama Festival is a particularly special one for award-winning traditional gospel musician Mambo Dhuterere who is scheduled to perform for the first time in the United Kingdom next month. Mambo Dhuterere, who recently turned 30, has described the forthcoming UK tour as a big chapter in his flourishing career. “I am seeing God’s hand in my life. I am so excited to meet my fans in Europe. I am going there to preach the word of God and my music aids me to reach millions of people,” Mambo Dhuterere told the Daily News recently.