Brighton Muronzereyi muronzereyib@dailynews.co.zw ZANU PF Harare provincial Chairman Goodwills Masimirembwa has underlined his party’s determination to win all parliamentary and municipal seats in the capital during next year’s harmonised elections. This comes after the ruling party snatched Epworth constituency from the opposition during last month’s by-elections. Speaking to the Daily News yesterday, Masimirembwa said “victory is certain.” “We are in very good shape, united and focused for 2023 harmonised plebiscites as we are working 100 percent for votes for President Emerson Mnangagwa and all our parliamentary candidates and councillors to win resoundingly, “said Masimirembwa. “As we celebrate the independence, we cherish achievements of the Second Republic headed by President Mnangagwa with its infrastructure development where roads, dams and investments are taking place as we improve the economy to achieve Vision 2030 leaving no one behind,” he added. Masimirembwa’s bold declaration comes in the wake of a similar one by Zanu PF spokesperson Christopher Mutsvangwa who said the ruling party was confident of wresting all urban seats from the opposition in 2023. “Their days of urban supremacy are challenged and over. We shall be pinpointing every corruption that they have been doing, we shall make sure every person who won in the parliamentary and council seats on Saturday is held accountable,” Mutsvangwa said. “That is going to be the decider of the urban vote 2023. We will be toe to toe, foot to foot with the opposition for their misdeeds and corruption. We will expose them to make sure we win the urban vote. “We are also warning the CCC that their days of supremacy in Binga and Matabeleland North are over. “In rural areas the margin between the opposition and Zanu PF reflects a complete washout. Signs are very bleak for Chamisa ever aspiring for state house. I heard someone on social media saying Chamisa is the master of Harare and I think that is what he should aspire for,” Mutsvangwa said.