Blessings Mashaya mashayab@dailynews.co.zw SPEAKER of the National Assembly Jacob Mudenda, on Thursday ejected Citizens Coalition for Change (CCC) legislators for putting on yellow neck-ties, saying it was against parliamentary decorum. This comes after the National Assembly had early this week set up a committee to probe the CCC attire and concluded that it was against Parliament’s Standing Rules and Orders.  But some CCC MPs,  including  Tendai Biti ( Harare East), Wellington Chikombo (Glen Norah North) and Chalton Hwende (Kuwadzana), went against the findings and on Thursday came to the august House putting on yellow oufits, drawing the ire of Mudenda who blasted them for  failure to respect the House’s rules.  “In the past, before the recall of the said Members of Parliament, we did not have issues at all about the attire of political parties. This is a public Chamber.  It is not a place for political theatre. We can wear our attire and party regalia outside when we go for our political meetings or in our constituencies but not in the Chamber because this is a public institution. Mudenda explained that the committee had met on that day with Biti refusing to accept the ruling that they were not supposed to put on yellow neckties. “Some Zanu PF MPs were asked by the Chair in the past and yesterday, not to wear the Presidential trademark scarf in the House. “They all complied.  Thus, in fairness and in the spirit of impartiality, Members on my left from CCC, the majority of whom have not put on the attire in question and only three, I think, decided to disobey my ruling which had carried so much indulgence,” he said. Mudenda’s response did not go down well with CCC legislators who opposed the decision and some were heard shouting “Musadaro mudhara (old man what you are doing is not good)” . Biti challenged Mudenda saying his ruling was not in line with Parliament’s Standing Rules and Orders. “As a point of clarification, is your determination centred and directed at the colour of the neck-tie or your decision is directed at the fact that there was a collective sartorial adoption of yellow neck-ties by Members that were sworn in, on Tuesday, 5th April, 2022? But Mudenda advised CCC members to approach the courts if they were not happy with his ruling. “Order … Biti, with all due respect, I said I am guided by Standing Order Number 80 (2).  I am guided by Standing Order Number 215. You cannot debate my ruling.  Just a minute, if you are not happy with my ruling, you know what to do in terms of our law processes in this country. “Please sit down. If you want clarification, you can take the Chair to court and I am prepared to defend. Unfortunately my ruling is without amendment. I am asking the Hon. Members to peacefully leave the Chamber.” Mudenda said. After Mudenda’s ruling Biti, Hwende and Chikombo were escorted out of the Chamber.