THE Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) Company has set April 26 to 30 as the dates for the 2022 edition of the country’s largest exhibition. ZITF board chairperson Busisa Moyo yesterday said President Emmerson Mnangagwa had approved the dates for this year’s exhibition, with preparations now underway for the fair.  “The ZITF Company board and management wishes to officially inform all stakeholders that  His  Excellency,  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Zimbabwe  Dr  E.D.  Mnangagwa,  has approved the hosting of the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair from 26 – 30 April 2022. The  international,  multi-sectoral  exhibition  will  be  held  under  the  theme,  “Rethink, Reimagine, Re-invent Value Chains for Economic Development,” Moyo said. He said this year’s focus, as shown in the theme, placed the ZITF as an epicentre of driving resilience and adaptability.  “The theme locates ZITF as the nerve centre for driving adaptability, agility and resilience. “It highlights the need for disruptive thinking, enabling economic players to identify future disruptors, craft and implement change strategies as the environment and needs of the business and economy change,” he said. Moyo said this year’s edition of the trade fair built on lessons learnt from the two-year disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.  “During the last two years, supply chains, which lacked global resilience, broke down in the face  of  multi-country  disruptions  owing  largely  to  the  Covid -19  pandemic.  National lockdowns,  travel  restrictions  and  labour  market  shifts  slowed  and  even  temporarily stopped  the  flow  of  raw  materials  and  finished  goods,  disrupting  manufacturing  as  a result,” said Moyo. Moyo said  the  pandemic  accelerated  and  magnified  problems  that  already existed in supply chains by exposing previously unseen vulnerabilities. He said the 2022 ZITF  exhibition  focuses   on   the   need   for   strategic   transformation in   the configuration  and  operation  of  local  value  chains  and  regional  value  chains.   “By leveraging networking opportunities at the tradeshow and interacting with new ways of doing business, participants can reimagine their business models and reconfigure their supply chains to become more flexible, agile and resilient,” he said. He said this year’s theme was in line with the National Development Strategy 1, which seeks  to  create  new synergies  and  accelerate  the  domestication  of  existing  value  chains  by promoting diversification and competitiveness. Moyo invited exhibitors to bring their best innovators to  the fair, in order to help build solutions for the country’s as well as global problems.  “ZITF 2022 exhibitors are encouraged to bring forth their best innovations that reflect their capabilities to formulate innovative home-grown solutions that match global standards. “Exhibition bookings are now open and the response to the sales and marketing efforts has been very positive,” said Moyo.  He said strict health regulations in line with the prevailing Covid-19 guidelines will be adhered to throughout the exhibition days. by  Andile Tshuma in BULAWAYO