MISS Pan African Queen International 2019 Pauline Marere, pictured,  will host and organise the Zimbabwe edition of Miss Culture International in May. The Miss Culture International pageant was created to celebrate different cultures through showcasing beauty and fashion. The Zimbabwe edition is set to be held at the Harare International Conference Centre in the capital. “I am glad to be part of the organisers this time and I am looking forward to the challenge. The winner will represent the country at the Miss Culture International finals set to take place at the end of this year,” Marere said.  Miss Culture International director Maynard Chizavare said the international pageant will feature models from 40 countries from across the globe who will battle it out for the crown. “Our focus is to bring together women from diverse cultures to learn from each other and find common ground in pursuit of a transformation and change agenda. We also strive to promote tourism,” Chizavare said. Marere participated in the Miss Culture International finals in South Africa last year where she was adjudged the first runner-up with Filipino model Samela Godin being the ultimate winner. For winning the Miss Culture International pageant, Godin pocketed R100 000 and an opportunity to travel across the world and visit over 50 000 school children, members of the business community and cultural organisations. The appointment of Marere as the organiser of the Zimbabwe edition of Miss Culture International has not come as a surprise to many who have followed her illustrious career. Marere, who draws some inspiration from Brita Masalethulini who conquered the continent some years ago in the Miss Malaika pageant, has won various beauty titles in Zimbabwe and beyond. In her illustrious modelling career, Marere has won a number of competitions including Miss Pan African Queen, World Miss University 2017/2018, Miss Cape Peninsula University Bellville campus 2017-2018 (Queen) and Queen of the Cape 2017-2018 (Queen), among others.