AN ISRAELI businessman has been nabbed on allegations of defrauding his business partners of over US$200 000 after forging signatures on bank documents. Ofer Sivan, 51, is also accused of providing false information at the High Court, resulting in him swindling fellow shareholders of their shares in their company, Adlecraft Investments. Sivan was not asked to plead to fraud and perjury allegations when he appeared before Harare regional magistrate Stanford Mambanje yesterday. He was remanded in custody to today for the continuation of his bail application.  This was after the State had opposed on the grounds that he is a flight risk and that he was intimidating witnesses claiming to have political connections. The State alleges that on September 23, 2020 while working in consent with one Myburg Cassandra, who is still at large, Sivan forged the signatures of the complainant, Gilad Shabtai, on the Stanbic Bank account opening forms. His intention, the State further alleges, was  deceiving the bank officials for them to open bank accounts for the company Adlecraft Investments (Private) Limited under  the pretext that, Shabtai, as one of the directors was involved,  yet he had not approved  the opening of that account. It is also alleged that the two also forged Shabtai’s signatures on the Adlecraft company resolution dated September 29 2020, purporting to appoint Sivan as the sole signatory to the bank account. The court heard that the bank officials went on to open two accounts in the name Adlecraft Investments (Private) Limited and Sivan became the signatory to the two accounts. It is also alleged that in November 2021, Munyaradzi Gonyora a minority shareholder in the company discovered the offence after perusing documents obtained from Stanbic Bank and then alerted Shabtai who then reported the matter to the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission. The court heard that investigations revealed that Shabtai’s signatures were forged on the company resolution 0 and account opening forms which prejudiced the shareholders of more than US$200 000 of generated income and nothing was recovered. Meanwhile in another case of perjury, Sivan is alleged to have approached the High Court of Zimbabwe under the cover of case numbers HC4711/2021 and HC5436/2021 respectively where he fraudulently misrepresented that Adlecraft Investments (Private) Limited only had 20 issued shares all of which were allotted to him. He allegedly attached a fake share transfer certificate. The State alleges that he knew that there were other legal persons who owned shares in the same company with Adlecraft Holdings (Private) Limited having 49 percent shares while Razaro Mapuwapuwa,  Munyaradzi Gonyora , Stephen Mangoda , and Charles Chitima  all had 10 percent shares while Adlecraft Investments (Private) Limited Workers trusts had 11 percent. It is further  alleged that Sivan signed the shareholders agreement on behalf of Adlecraft Holdings as well as all the share certificates for all shareholders in Adrecraft Investments (Private)Limited which are filed with the Zimbabwe Investment Development Authority (ZIDA). The State also accuses Sivan of misrepresenting the High Court of Zimbabwe through sworn founding affidavits that he was the sole shareholder. He allegedly made written statements under oath with the intention to prejudice the course of justice so that a decision would be made in his favour based on false information and also prejudiced other shareholders.