CHILD rights activists have urged the government to reopen schools so that all children can get quality education. This comes after acting president Constantino Chiwenga on Saturday hinted that schools may reopen at the beginning of February provided the country contains Covid-19 infections and deaths. The country has in recent weeks been hit by the virus’ fourth wave, especially the Omicron variant, forcing the government to indefinitely close schools. In an interview, Zimbabwe National Council for the Welfare of Children (ZNCWC) director Reverend Taylor Nyanhete said school closure had devastating consequences for children’s learning and wellbeing.  “We really appreciate the efforts to fight Covid-19, but unfortunately the extension in school closure is affecting children in getting proper education. The extension means less time for children to learn the necessary skills they need for their future. Education is important. Proper learning and guidance from qualified staff is needed for children and not having that time really affects their development,” said Nyanhete. He said it was crucial for schools to come up with strategies to help children to go to school.  “What is important for schools is for them to have proper management of outbreaks that may happen. Covid-19 is with us for some time and we don’t know when it will end, so it means our approach has to change in terms of how we manage it,” said Nyanhete. “The parent is a critical stakeholder when it comes to their children’s education, therefore, they have to be assisted by the government in trying to help educate their children.” A parent from Bulawayo who spoke to Daily News also expressed concern at the indefinite closure of schools. “School closures have already caused numerous negative outcomes for our children socially, developmentally and in terms of their education. It’s unfortunate that they continue to bear the brunt of these Covid-19 mitigation measures. It’s so sad because some children are now resorting to unscrupulous activities because of boredom. For instance, today I met children who were smoking cigarettes,” said Sharon Mpala.  She added that authorities should also consider that not all parents can afford online lessons and the gadgets used for e-learning.