THE Meteorological Service Department (MSD) in conjunction with the Department of Civil Protection (DCP) on Sunday warned the nation to stay alert as violent storms were expected to hit the country starting yesterday up to Thursday. This, they said, would be a result of weather conditions being experienced in neighbouring countries. “Intense rains and strong winds are expected in the southern districts of Manicaland into Masvingo province on Monday (today). From Tuesday till Thursday, heavy rains that are above 50mm are probable in all Mashonaland provinces and Manicaland. Light rains are anticipated elsewhere across the country with cloudy conditions prevailing,” the report said. “People should stay indoors during thunderstorms and heavy rains and secure all loose items including roof tops. Only move to higher ground when advised by Civil Protection Units and stay informed through official MSD platforms.”  Of late, heavy rains accompanied by wind have destroyed homes in the Lowveld, Matabeleland South and Bulawayo which were hit by flash floods. Several families were in some places left homeless and without food. Building on the lessons from Cyclone Idai, the country should come up with an action plan to be communicated to citizens. Accordingly authorities must identify and equip evacuation centres with tents, blankets, food items, toiletries and other essentials. The speedy evacuation of people to safer areas by the government and development partners is highly praiseworthy. This is essentially so as the authorities must always be alert and prepared for the danger that comes along with tropical storms that could save many lives. There have been enough lessons from Cyclone Idai and coronavirus that low risk perception in ordinary people can be fatal. From this background, government awareness and publicity campaigns using traditional media such as television and radio are indispensable. The use of traditional leaders, local authorities, local media houses and other community leaders to communicate the potential danger to their constituencies should be prioritised. Though authorities’ alertness is commendable, it is pertinent that the government make sure that aid material would reach the intended publics timeously. Reports of massive corruption and resale of aid material for Cyclone Idai victims made sad readings. Authorities should find a way to deal with such. Autho rities need a heavy hand to weed out corrupt officials at a time when the treasury is stretched for resources owing to the current fight against Covid-19.