THE daughter of the late former president Robert Mugabe, Bona Chikore, pictured, yesterday distanced herself from over 50 fake social media accounts under her name. There are several Facebook accounts and Instagram handles under Bona’s name and most of them give advice to people on a number of issues, including marriage, attracting thousands of followers In a statement released by her legal representatives, Venturas and Samukange Legal Practitioners yesterday, the lawyers said responsible authorities had been alerted to investigate and take legal action against the offenders.  “Our client advises that her name has of late been unlawfully, without her knowledge and consent, been ascribed to several accounts on several social media platforms, in particular, Facebook and Instagram. “In the current year, a Facebook account under the name Bona Mugabe purported to give the impression that our client was behind the lecture on what constitutes a good marriage. “Recently on 16 December 2021, the same Facebook account purportedly published Bona Mugabe’s message to Zimbabweans,” read the statement. “The public is hereby informed that our client does not own or operate this and other several social media accounts which at today’s count worryingly run more than 50 in number “Our client is not a media personality. She is and has been a private person and would like to keep it that way. We are in the process, working with the responsible authorities to bring to book these unscrupulous people whose agenda is to tarnish the name of our client. The public henceforth is strongly advised to stop following and or liking these fake social media accounts whose real identities will soon be determined by the responsible authorities. “Our client regrets any inconveniences that may have been caused to any fellow citizen who might have been following the social media accounts on the genuine assumption that they were legitimate. Please be advised that our client shall not bear any legal responsibility in connection with the continued active status of these several social media accounts whose operations are at the instance of someone whose ulterior motives are unknown at this stage.” by  Rumbidzai Ngwenya STAFF WRITER ngwenyar@dailynews.co.zw