FORMER Zimbabwean cricket captain Brendan Taylor has foreshadowed a “multi-year” ban from the ICC for a four-month delay in reporting a match-fixing approach. In a Twitter post, Taylor — who played 34 Tests, 202 ODIs and 45 T20Is for Zimbabwe from 2004 to 2021 — released a searingly honest statement, admitting he took cocaine and a $15,000 bribe from an Indian businessman — an interaction that caused his life to unravel. While Taylor detailed he faced a multiple-year ban from international cricket, he denied any involvement of spot match fixing at any time during his cricket career. Zimbabwe cricket former captain, Brendan Taylor “I’ve been carrying a burden for over two years now that has sadly taken me to some very dark places and had a profound effect on my mental health,” the statement read.  “And I’ve only recently managed to start sharing my story with close friends and family and receive the love and support I guess I was too ashamed and frightened to seek in the first place. “This may not make for comfortable reading but I would like to make a statement regarding a finding made by the ICC, which is soon to be released.” The 35-year-old batsman said he was invited by an Indian businessman in October 2019 to discuss “sponsorships and the potential launch of a T20 competition in Zimbabwe and was advised that I would be paid USD$15 000 for the journey”. The invitation came when the team had not received salaries for six months and there were concerns the country would not be able to continue playing internationally. He said he was a “little wary” but undertook the trip all the same. During drinks on the last night, he was offered cocaine which the businessman and his colleagues were taking and said he “foolishly took the bait”. “The following morning, the same men stormed into my hotel room and showed me a video of me the night before doing cocaine and told me that if I did not spot fix at international matches for them, the video would be released to the public. “I was concerned. And with six of these individuals in my hotel room, I was scared for my own safety. I’d fallen for it. I’d willingly walked into a situation that has changed my life forever. “When I returned home, the stress of what had taken place severely impacted my mental and physical health. I was a mess. I was diagnosed with shingles and prescribed strong antipsychotic medication – maitriptyline.” It took him four months to report the offence to the ICC. “I acknowledge this was too long of a time but I thought I could protect everyone and in particular, my family,” he said. He said he was ready and will “humbly” accept the ICC decision. “Unfortunately, they did not, but I cannot feign ignorance in this regard. I have attended many anti-corruption seminars over the years and we know that time is of the essence when making reports. “I would like to place on record that I have never been involved in any form of match-fixing. I may be many things but I am not a cheat. My love for the beautiful game of cricket far outweighs and surpasses any threats which could be thrown my way. “That being said, the ICC are taking the decision to impose a multi-year ban on my international cricket career. I humbly accept this decision and only hope that my story will be used as a means of encouragement for cricketers to report any approaches early.” Taylor, who resigned as the Zimbabwe captain late last year, said he would check into a rehab centre to “try get my life back on track”. “I will admit that the past two years have been incredibly challenging, both personally and professionally and it is from absolute rock bottom that I am trying to climb out of the mess I made,” he said. “My family and friends have been incredibly supportive of me and it is clear to me now that I have a much bigger problem which for some time has needed addressing. “I have to tell my story now because I know people will want to hear from me. To try and understand what led to this point. But for many weeks I will be away and trying to get better. “I owe it to myself and to my family to get clean and to put them first. I have let substance take control of me and impair my vision, my morals and my values and it is time that I prioritise what really matters.” Taylor ended his Zimbabwe career — which spanned 17 years — as the nation’s second-highest run scorer in ODI cricket including a national record 11 centuries in 205 appearances. He was equally effective in the Test arena amassing six centuries in 34 matches, five behind national record-holder Andy Flower. Taylor said he was hopeful his story would be “used as a means of encouragement for cricketers to report any illicit approaches as early as possible”. “I had not realised that coming forward and talking would give me so much relief from the hell I have found myself in for years. Drugs and narcotics do not discriminate and it took all that I have to admit that I have a problem,” he said. “To end I need to let you know I am sorry for those I have hurt. I am sorry for those I have let down. “I would like to thank my family, my friends, and my supporters for always being there. I have learnt the true meaning of loyalty. “The greatest honour that can be bestowed, is to captain and represent ones country and for this, I am eternally grateful. “I am also grateful for what this experience has taught me. I am grateful for my four beautiful children, my loving supportive wife, my health and the clarity I now have to want to be a better version of myself.” — AFP