AS EXPECTED, the disgraced Zifa board continues to fight its suspension by the Sports and Recreation Commission (SRC) after approaching Fifa. In approaching Fifa, the Zifa board appears to be giving the world football governing body an impression that it is still in office and running football, therefore, can convene the extraordinary general meeting (EGM), yet the opposite is the truth. This situation resulted in Fifa directing the defiant Zifa councillors to observe the Zifa constitution and not proceed with their planned indaba, which was scheduled for today and was expected to seal the fate of the Felton Kamambo-led board. Fifa said the suspended Zifa board should be given a chance to organise the indaba first and, only after they fail by April 3, then the councillors can do so. And given the Zifa board is suspended, it does not have the powers to convene such a meeting.   In this case, it’s only a time-buying tactic on their part, but the hosting of the EGM is inevitable more than ever.  The key thing is that Fifa has accepted that the congress needs to be held within 90 days and to their credit, the councillors have agreed to wait. The councillors have, in fact, been presented with ample time to ensure the Kamambo-led board is dealt with once and for all. And now that Fifa has endorsed the EGM, there is need for the councillors to agree on just one agenda to revoke the mandate of the Zifa board. Kamambo and his board should not be allowed anywhere near our football.  His administration stands accused of failing to call for an annual general meeting as provided in the association’s statutes. The Zifa board is also at the centre of uneven distribution of the Covid-19 relief funds from Fifa and Caf. At the height of the pandemic, the association received at least US$1,8 million from both Fifa and Caf in Covid-19 Relief Aid, but the funds’ distribution was mired in controversy, with women’s football failing to receive anything despite US$500 000 being specifically set aside for them. The suspended Zifa board also reneged on what they agreed on, as far as the distribution of Covid-19 funds is concerned, such as payment of referees’ fees and Covid-19 tests for all teams among other things and as result football failed to take off in 2020.