NEXT week on Sunday, Zimbabwe and the music world at large, will commemorate the life of music superstar and national hero Oliver Mtukudzi who died on January 23 in 2019 at the age of 66 due to complications related to diabetes. Tuku, who was buried at his rural home in Madziwa near Bindura town, left behind a rich musical legacy which included, among other things, 67 studio albums and the imposing Pakare Paye Arts Centre in Norton Our senior lifestyle writer Vasco Chaya visited the Pakare Paye Arts Centre where he caught up with Samantha Mtukudzi who doubles as the Black Spirits band leader and one of the directors of the arts centre.  Below are excerpts of the interview:  Q: It is close to three years since the death of music superstar Oliver Mtukudzi, how are you dealing with this big loss? A: To many people they lost a superstar in Mtukudzi but to us we lost a father who was everything to us.  It has not been easy to survive without him but such is life. Even my mother (Daisy), is still affected by the loss but I am glad that slowly she has sort of accepted it.   Remember they used to do things together— from exercising in our small gym to taking some regular walks around the neighbourhood together.  So imagine the pain of resuming this alone, without your partner. Q: Is the Pakare Paye Arts Centre Studio still operating? A: The studio will keep on running the way it was running during dad’s time.  Artistes are free to come and record music. We are happy because both aspiring and upcoming artistes are coming to use the studio. Q: Your father left behind his backing band, the Black Spirits, is it still intact? A: The band is still very much intact. Some band members might be pursuing personal projects during their spare time but that does not mean they have left the Black Spirits.  Following the death of dad, we, however, started on a low key as we were still trying to come to terms with the sad reality of losing our pillar and father.  Now, it is good that we have accepted the reality and we are back on track.  We have already lined-up some shows and some of them have already been fulfilled. Yes, the band is good but as you know, no one can fill Tuku’s shoes. We are trying to find someone who can sing and perform his songs the way he used to do.  Initially we worked with Jah Prayzah and Mbeu, a product of Pakare Paye Arts Centre.  We liked their voices and experience on stage but as you know they are equally busy with their personal projects.  Lately, we have been working with Sarungano, another product of Pakare Paye on lead vocals.  However, we are open to working with other lead vocalists. Q: Does the Black Spirits intend to release new albums? A: The Black Spirits boasts 67 studio albums — all composed and sung by Oliver Mtukudzi.  We have no plans to record any new album. Our job is to preserve and promote his music legacy through staging concerts in different parts of the country.  However, for the past year or two it was difficult, not just for the Black Spirits, but for the entire arts sector to hold some musical shows due to Covid-19 restrictions.  Like any other band in the country, we are happy because the arts sector is slowly opening up and we hope to start with local concerts before we resume regional and international tours. Q: Is it true that royalties from the sale of Tuku’s music have increased substantially since his death? A: The way Tuku’s music was selling before his death is still the same.  The royalties we used to get during his time are the same royalties we are getting now.  Even soon after his death, the sales remained the same; they did not increase as alleged by some people.