THE Chinese Embassy in Zimbabwe has savaged local civil society organisations (CSOs) claiming companies from the Asian giant are looting the country’s resources and displacing citizens from their homes as they embark on various business projects. In a hard-hitting statement, the Chinese embassy described as unfounded assertions that most Chinese companies were operating without requisite licences. “The embassy values constructive dialogue with the general public to gather more opinions and promote mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries and their businesses. “However, we are not confident the groups bundled together behind this statement can represent the civil society as they claim. The homogeneity of their political backgrounds and values is quite dubious; and we challenge how many Zimbabweans would identify themselves as members or followers of these groups or subscribe to the opinions that they claim to be those of the whole civil society,” the embassy said.  “Suffice to say that they are significantly outnumbered by the Zimbabwean employees working in companies established with Chinese investment and outnumbered by the ordinary Zimbabwean citizens who are benefiting from China-Zimbabwe cooperation, projects aided by China and numerous donations made by local Chinese businesses.” The embassy said the concoction of nebulous language slanting against Chinese investments, one-sided arguments, unqualified assertions, and fake stories smelt of a recipe frequently used to stir up xenophobic sentiments. “Contrary to the claim that China and Chinese companies have no regard for the local ordinary citizens, the Chinese government, Chinese state-owned and private businesses have been making great contributions to the improvement of local people’s livelihood. “What do the groups say to those drawing water from 1 000 boreholes drilled by Chinese engineers with Chinese government aid? What do they say to those spared from critical conditions by taking Covid-19 vaccines donated by China and adding up to 12 million doses in this year? “What do they say to those tobacco growers who are seeing good incomes by working with their Chinese partners? Were it not for China’s funding support and the work of Chinese companies in ICT and power generation, even the statement in question would perhaps have to be scribbled down on a piece of paper, in a candle-lit room, and never find its way onto a functioning Internet.” The embassy also said the CSOs should blame and denounce sanctions which are causing unnecessary suffering to Zimbabweans. “Where there are differences, the best course of action is to bring the case to the court of law, not through xenophobic manipulation. The latter approach buries and twists facts and does not deliver fair judgments. “Dragging Chinese investors into political sideshows or making them victims of domestic political vendetta hurts only the people of Zimbabwe and the development of the country as a whole. It is a way of extending sanctions by trying to force Chinese investment out of the country to make Zimbabwe more vulnerable. “Mistaken are the groups insinuating that Chinese companies aspire for dominance in Zimbabwe’s economic sectors. Both the Chinese government and business community welcome above board, fair competition. Anyone who is genuine about helping Zimbabwe succeed should feel free to join the race,” the embassy added.