THE Information Communication Technology Postal and Courier Services ministry on Tuesday commissioned two state-of-the -art ICT labs at Domboramwari High and Epworth Primary School, Harare, in a bid to renew learning methods and establish a more active collaboration of students and the simultaneous acquisition of technological knowledge. The development is a fulfilment of the mandate given by President Emmerson Mnangagwa to the ICT ministry to ensure that no one is left behind in the digital age. Speaking during the ground-breaking ceremony, minister of ICT Jenfan Muswere said the Covid-19 pandemic had impacted on the day-to-day lives of citizens, among them school going children. “Government has responded by coming up with digital solutions such as e-learning, a solution pivoted on the ability of our school going learners to access ICT equipment and internet connectivity,” he said.  “The National Development Strategy 1 (NDS1) identifies a digital economy as one of the pillars for the attainment of vision 2030. The creation of a digital economy will be achieved only if we create universal access to ICTs for all our citizens regardless of their location. Access is, however, not enough if we do not develop ICT skills,” Muswere said. “The development of any nation is founded on human capital development. This means that our ability to attain vision 2030 as enunciated by President Mnangagwa rests on how well trained our people are. Any training that does not involve learners in our institutions of learning is futile as it is not forward-looking. The provision of ICT equipment to schools is, therefore, a priority if we are to achieve vision 2030.” The ministry of ICT came up with The SMART Zimbabwe 2030 master plan in line with the NDS1. The master plan seeks to transform the country through the use of ICTs so that Zimbabwe attains its vision of becoming an upper middle-income economy by 2030. Muswere said the major component of the Smart Zimbabwe Masterplan is smart education or e-learning. “Our vision is to see all learners having access to and knowledge of ICTs to not only facilitate learning in the classroom but virtually from any place and at any time.  “The ICT Labs we have commissioned today are, therefore, a gateway for Epworth to the world and they are also a route marker as Zimbabwe forges its way towards attaining an Upper Middle Economy Status by the year 2030. Our Ministry remains committed to not only equipping schools with ICT labs but we are also committed to connecting everyone to ICT through initiatives such as community information centres, PFMS Kiosks and Training of individuals in ICT usage,” he added.