The deadline for the submission is March 31 with the winners set to be announced on April 22 this year. The awards are the brainchild of Calvin Chimutuwah, pictured,  — a visual artist who has 13 years of painting experience. Chimutuwah has done five solo exhibitions to date. One of his crowning moments was in 2012 when he won the National Arts Merits Awards (Nama) gong for Outstanding 2D Work. According to Chimutuwah, the event meant for upcoming visual artists, will see winners being awarded cash and opportunities to receive training from seasoned visual artists in the country and to exhibit at top art galleries. “The ultimate winner will get US$150 and second and third runners-up will walk away with US$100 and US$50 respectively.  “But the whole idea is not about prize money but to help the young artists — between the ages of 18 and 26 — with skill and knowledge of the industry,” Calvin Awards director Chimutuwah said. “The top 10 selected artists will attend a five day art workshop and will be given art materials to come up with at most two artworks which will be exhibited at the Artillery Gallery in May in Harare.” To enter the competition, one should submit a single artwork to the Calvin Art Award 2022 and stand a chance to be part of a five-day workshop with top art coaches. “The workshop offers guidance into the Zimbabwe and international art scene, portfolio reviews, college applications for further study, drawing and painting demonstrations. “Interested artists are also required to submit 1 (one) image in jpg format not more than 5MBb and also send a paragraph or two as a word document about the artist’s profile (about 150 words). Drawings, paintings and 3D sculptures are also welcome,” he said. PREPARATIONS for the inaugural Calvin Art Awards are on course with organisers calling for entries. The deadline for the submission is March 31 with the winners set to be announced on April 22 this year. The awards are the brainchild of Calvin Chimutuwah, pictured,  — a visual artist who has 13 years of painting experience. Chimutuwah has done five solo exhibitions to date. One of his crowning moments was in 2012 when he won the National Arts Merits Awards (Nama) gong for Outstanding 2D Work. According to Chimutuwah, the event meant for upcoming visual artists, will see winners being awarded cash and opportunities to receive training from seasoned visual artists in the country and to exhibit at top art galleries. “The ultimate winner will get US$150 and second and third runners-up will walk away with US$100 and US$50 respectively. “But the whole idea is not about prize money but to help the young artists — between the ages of 18 and 26 — with skill and knowledge of the industry,” Calvin Awards director Chimutuwah said. “The top 10 selected artists will attend a five day art workshop and will be given art materials to come up with at most two artworks which will be exhibited at the Artillery Gallery in May in Harare.” To enter the competition, one should submit a single artwork to the Calvin Art Award 2022 and stand a chance to be part of a five-day workshop with top art coaches. “The workshop offers guidance into the Zimbabwe and international art scene, portfolio reviews, college applications for further study, drawing and painting demonstrations. “Interested artists are also required to submit 1 (one) image in jpg format not more than 5MBb and also send a paragraph or two as a word document about the artist’s profile (about 150 words). Drawings, paintings and 3D sculptures are also welcome,” he said.