A GWERU man Tinoda Mukutu won a brand new Nissan NP200 at the Puma Energy Jackpot Promotion handover ceremony in Harare last weekend. Mukutu was one of the four winners at the event held at the company’s headquarters in Eastlea. On the other hand, Ega Muleya from Victoria Falls received 600 litres of fuel after coming in second while Munyaradzi Chiguware and Godfrey Rukwava got 300 litres and 100 litres for their third and fourth positions. The Puma Energy Jackpot Promotion ran for nine weeks from October 18 to December 18, 2021 with one expected to buy US$20 worth of fuel or five litres of Puma SD lubricant to be eligible for the competition.  Speaking after the event, Mukutu said he thought he was dreaming when he received a call from the capital notifying him that he was the grand prize winner. “At times you can’t find words to describe how you feel, but when I got the message that I won this vehicle, I couldn’t believe it. I was sort of mesmerised, I felt dizzy and I asked myself if I was awake or dreaming,” said an ecstatic Mukutu. He added: “I phoned my family and relatives and they all couldn’t believe it and they told me that I was crazy. Back home in Gweru, Zvishavane they are waiting to see this vehicle. “I would like to thank God for the prize, God has a message for me. I think it has got something to do with my life; I would like to thank Him wholeheartedly for that. I would also like to thank Puma and the management team for initiating this programme. They tend to motivate us as individuals to buy Puma and also to motivate others to buy Puma.” A total of 278 000 entries were received during the competition and over 16 000 litres of fuel was won by local customers.  Puma Energy Zimbabwe general manager Cydwell Chitewe described the competition as successful saying the company managed to cover up for the volumes lost during the Covid-19 pandemic. “We actually had a lot of winners but today we are here to celebrate the ultimate winners. “It’s an exciting day for us…we were also affected by Covid-19, as a business our volumes were down by almost 60 percent. “We also felt that because we are now working from home and people were not really quite there. We were also not quite engaging with our customers as well so we felt that this promotion was an opportunity for us firstly to increase our volumes but more importantly to also start engaging with our customers and also reward our customers for their loyalty,” said Chitewe. “It has been a successful campaign in the sense that from a volume point of view which was one of the main targets we managed to increase our volumes which was quite exciting. “We also managed to go around the country and get to know what our customers are looking for and also give back to some of our customs as well through prizes. “We hope that as we go forward into this year and years to come we should be able to actually have more promotions of this nature and be able to give even bigger and better prices as well.”