MULTI-AWARD-WINNING musicians Winky D, pictured, and Michael Mahendere, as well as local video director Aaron Mheta, have been nominated for the continental Global Music Awards Africa which recognise and reward African artists. Winky D is in the running for dancehall award while Mahendere is hoping to win the Gospel Artiste of the Year for the second year running in the Africa-wide awards founded in Ghana last year by Smart Focus Media’s Daniel Adofo. To win the continental Gospel Artiste of the Year gong again, Mahendere has to fend off stiff competition from Diana Hamilton (Ghana), Mercy Chinwo (Nigeria), Prosper Ochimana (Nigeria), Tope Alabi (Nigeria), Mercy Masika (Kenya), Levixone (Uganda) and Ohemaa Mercy (Ghana). On the other hand, Happy Again hitmaker Winky D is up against last year’s winner Shatta Wale (Ghana), Burna Boy (Nigeria), Stonebwoy (Ghana), Patoranking (Nigeria), Star Zee (Sierra Leone), Epixode (Ghana), Bebe Cool (Uganda) and (Nigeria).  Winky D has expressed delight to be nominated alongside the continent’s dancehall heavyweights. “We are so happy with this latest achievement. We feel encouraged as when we set out for work, we do it just to express ourselves and influence society. But at times, the artiste’s efforts will not go unnoticed hence we are so grateful to be recognised among the best of the continent,” Winky D told the Daily News through his manager Jonathan Banda. The latest nomination is yet another endorsement for Winky D who scooped the Best African dancehall entertainer award at the 39th edition of the International Reggae and World Music Awards (IRAWMA) held last year in Jamaica. Prior to that, Winky D had also won Best Dancehall Artiste 2020 gong at the African Entertainment Awards in the United States of America (AEAUSA). For Mheta, who is credited for directing top local videos such as Zvemoyo by Takura and Maria Musande by Scrip Mula, to win the award, he has to shrug off competition from top videographers such as Clarence Peters (Nigeria),  Salifu Abdul Haifiz (Ghana), Babs Directions (Ghana), Dammy Twitch (Nigeria) and Nape Phasha (South Africa).