TWO Bulawayo shops were left counting their losses recently after thieves broke into the retail outlets and made away with a combined US$7 000 and R10 000. Police yesterday said the suspects gained entry through a rooftop by cutting zinc sheets and ceiling and disengaging the alarm systems before breaking the money safe and cash drawers to access the money. National police spokesperson Paul Nyathi, pictured,  said the incident took place last weekend in the central business district. “Police in Bulawayo are investigating cases of unlawful entry into premises committed in aggravating circumstances where an unknown suspect broke into a shop along Joshua Nkomo Street between 13th and 14th Avenue through the roof and damaged the security radio link alarm on February 5.   The suspect cut the safe with an unknown object and stole US $4 000 before proceeding to the next shop which is under the same roof where he stole US$3 000 and R10 000 cash which was in the cash drawer,” Nyathi told the Daily News in an interview yesterday. Nyathi called on business people and residents to avoid keeping large sums of money in business premises or at homes instead of banks. This comes as police are currently investigating a number of armed robberies and thefts in the city. Last week, police in the city bust a syndicate responsible for more than 18 robberies and recovered a consignment of household property such as television sets, microwaves, stoves, refrigerators as well as car batteries and vehicle spares. Bulawayo provincial police spokesperson Abednico Ncube said in an interview with the Daily News yesterday that it was important for residents to secure their homes and business premises. “As police, we urge residents to try and secure their homes more effectively. While beefing up security will not stop the robbers and burglars from attempting to break in, a more secure target property will delay them, which may make them give up or which buys enough time for help to arrive. Secure your Windows and doors and ensure that homes are secured when you leave or retire for the night,” he said.