MUSIC star Jah Prayzah and award-winning stand-up comedian Carl Joshua Ncube delivered solid acts when they shared the stage at the launch of 3Ktv at the weekend. Jah Prayzah and Ncube were part of the cast of  entertainers that graced the launch of the new  television service which has lined up content which includes  local drama, reality shows, news, sport, educational programmes and documentaries that will spotlight a wide range of Zimbabwean topics and people. Jah Prayzah kept revellers on their toes throughout his one-and-half-hour-long performance, belting out hits such as Goto, Machemebere, Jerusarema, Hakata, Hosanna and Chimwe Nechimwe, among others. Ncube, on the other hand, was at his hilarious best.   The talented comedian left the guests who attended the launch in stitches with an impeccable delivery that touched on a variety subjects. The event was graced by content creators, government officials including the Information minister Monica Mutsvangwa and representatives from arts organisations such as Zimbabwe Music Rights Association (Zimura) among others. Speaking at the event, 3Ktv Programming manager Christina Nyirenda-Chimuka described the new television as a game-changer. “Our new baby will be a game-changer in terms of the production, marketing and consumption of local TV products. Much of our content will come from local independent producers,” she said. She revealed that 3Ktv had already forged strategic partnerships with top producers in the country. “We have, for example, Shem Zemura — a multi-award-winning producer who has produced popular films like Kushata Kwemoyo and Muzita Rababa, among others.  “Zemura will produce Tangled for 3Ktv, a telenovela that will air four times a week. Nakai Tsuro, another multi-award winner, will produce I Can Act, a reality show where the winning contestants will then act in a new series in Season Two on 3Ktv. We also have Shaun Chitsiga, who is producing a reality game show Zim’s Best Barber, focusing on bringing the profession into the limelight,” she said. Nyirenda-Chimuka said the television will also strive to showcase the beautiful and diverse culture of Zimbabwe. “We also have Dorothy Chidzawo, yet another award winner, who is producing a drama titled Mawombera, which looks at family matters and showcases both rural and city life. Chidzawo is well known for producing Gringo, a Zimbabwean sitcom. “In addition, we also have Lenni of  Ya!sibo Media, another Bulawayo-based multi-award winner. Yas!bo is producing Foodie Lovers, a dating show and Our Weekender, which showcases tourist spots in and around the Bulawayo area,” she said.