THE Zimbabwe Revenue Authority (Zimra) board yesterday appointed commissioner for revenue assurance, Regina Chinamasa, as the new acting commissioner general. This comes after Zimra early last month suspended the appointment of Moris Mpofu as acting commissioner-general two days after his appointment. In a statement yesterday, Zimra board chairperson Josephine Matambo described Chinamasa as a tax expert with over 28 years of diverse experience in the field of revenue mobilisation and enforcement of compliance to fiscal laws. “The Zimbabwe Revenue Authority (Zimra) board wishes to inform stakeholders and the public of the appointment of… Chinamasa as the acting commissioner general of the authority with effect from February 1, 2022, while the board is processing the recruitment of the substantive commissioner general.   “Commissioner Chinamasa takes over from (Rameck) Masaire who is retiring from the authority effective January 31, 2022 (yesterday). “Currently, Chinamasa is the commissioner for revenue assurance in which position she is credited for introducing various processes that are plugging revenue leakages through modern investigative and compliance systems.  “She also has vast experience in domestic taxes and customs and excise fields,” Matambo said. She said Chinamasa started her career as a tax assessor in 1994 in the then department of Taxes and joined the investigation division of Zimra at its inception in 2001. “She moved to Customs and Excise in 2011 as head of Compliance and Risk Management.  “She was part of the team that introduced the authorised economic operators trade facilitation, post clearance audits, among other innovations. “From 2014, she moved to domestic taxes and served in various leadership roles from head level to acting as commissioner domestic taxes between 2016 and 2018. “During her career, she led various strategic and transformative initiatives and processes, which resulted in improved stakeholder engagements, improved compliance levels and reinforcement and strengthening of revenue collection processes of the authority,” Matambo added.