ABOUT 300 people — featuring the who’s who of government, local business, politics and civil society — will gather in Harare on Friday evening, to toast to the launch of 3Ktv. The Managing Director of Jester Media Services’ Broadcasting Division, Zweli Sibanda, told the Daily News yesterday that the colourful event would see the independent, family viewing television station being formally introduced to the market, ahead of the new channel going live. “We are indeed heading down the home stretch to the station’s much anticipated commencement of live programming, which is now just days away. “We are very proud that 3Ktv will be the first of the six stations which were licensed by authorities in late 2020 to take off.   “Friday’s invitation-only bash in Harare is part of our efforts to ensure that all key stakeholders, including our business partners and target audiences, are completely au fait with 3Ktv and its riveting programming. “As the country’s fastest growing, most inventive and arguably most influential media house, Jester Media Services is also once again demonstrating its confidence in the local economy through its significant investment in the new station. “The launch of 3Ktv is also a testament to our group’s enduring belief in the sustainability and importance of media in our society — coming as it does a few years after we added the country’s iconic and number one business newspaper, The Financial Gazette, to our portfolio of assets,” Sibanda added. “The nation has been able to see first hand over the past decade how the country and its communities have benefited from these assets, including through the creation of significant jobs, skills development and contributions to the fiscus and crucial democratic discourses.  “We have no doubt whatsoever that 3Ktv will have a similar, if not bigger impact on the people of Zimbabwe — including through the provision of a creative outlet for many and helping to build a sense of national pride and identity through its programming, in line with our group’s well-earned reputation for independence, balance and trustworthiness. “In this regard, congratulations to everyone who has worked hard to make 3Ktv a reality, and a big thank you to all our business partners who have made this dream possible,” Sibanda also said. This comes after 3Ktv’s General Manager, Emmanuel Nyamayedenga announced late last month that everything was on track, with the station then “trialling” its equipment, systems and processes ahead of launch. “All key personnel is in place and all critical equipment has been sourced and installed. We are now at trialling stage in preparation for the big day,” he said. “We are on the home straight now in terms of our preparations and everyone involved is champing at the bit to go on air and become the television station of choice for Zimbabweans. “There is an enormous appetite for excellent, independent and locally-produced television content in Zimbabwe and among Zimbabweans in the diaspora. “With the tag line ‘The Best of Zimbabwe’, 3Ktv is well set to meet this hunger for riveting, 24/7television programming from day one,” Nyamayedenga added. “We will offer unmatchable content on and about Zimbabwe, including quality home grown entertainment, current affairs programmes and absorbing documentaries — all tailored to the rich history, cultural diversity and socio-economic circumstances of Zimbabweans. “Indeed, our audiences and their experiences will be at the centre of all our broadcasts as we deliver innovative and distinctive content that is credible and non-partisan.  “In that regard, we will be showcasing the very best of Zimbabwe all round, with our content produced by Zimbabweans for Zimbabweans wherever they are,” Nyamayedenga also said. All this follows the licensing by the Broadcasting Authority of Zimbabwe (Baz) of six new television stations in November 2020, including 3Ktv — thereby ending six decades of monopoly by State broadcaster ZBC TV.    This, in turn, followed a rigorous and transparent public vetting process by Baz, in which 3Ktv — a sister venture to the Pink Paper (FinGaz), as well as the inimitable Daily News and the Daily News On Sunday — emerged tops after the keenly-fought adjudication proceedings. Buoyed by this overwhelming vote of confidence from Zimbabweans, Nyamayedenga said viewers were “in for a huge treat”. “As our principals and board of directors have said, ours is not an experiment, even as this marks the first venture by our group in the key broadcasting sector. “Similarly, we have had very fruitful engagements with our business partners, to extend the excellent and mutually beneficial relationship that we have had with them in print and online to television,” Nyamayedenga said.