BLACK Rhinos coach Herbert Maruwa, pictured, insists they are not reading much into CAPS United’s problems as they prepare for their clash with the financially-troubled Harare side at Sakubva Stadium on Sunday. The Green Machine lost valuable training time after players downed tools over outstanding salaries.  Makepekepe only resumed training this week following intervention by the club’s leadership. The standoff between players and the club’s team management led to the exit of talented left back Brandon Mpofu, who crossed the great divide to sign for the Glamour Boys while exciting midfielder Tatenda Tumba retraced his footsteps to Harare City.   Fullback Tafadzwa Jaravani has also left the five-time Zimbabwe champions for Northern Region Division One side Simba Bhora while several other players are reportedly unwilling to renew their contracts. With the fading Harare giants yet to announce any new signings, soccer enthusiasts have raised serious questions on the team’s preparedness ahead of the resumption of league action this weekend. However, Maruwa is not taking any chances as he insists CAPS United remain tricky opponents.   “It’s not going to be an easy match. CAPS United is a big club with so much history.  “We know that they were facing problems but we cannot take them for granted,” Maruwa told the Daily News yesterday. “We respect CAPS United. We know they were training. They just stopped training on Friday and Saturday but they were training. We have much respect for the team.” The army side, which recently secured a lease agreement with the Rusape Town Council to use Vhengere Stadium as their home base for the next three years, is going through a rebuilding exercise after losing several players recently. Chauya Chipembere lost striker Tawanda Macheke who signed for South Africa’s Dstv Premiership side Maritzburg United, while Walter Sande, Edgar Mhungu, Simba Makoni, Davison Marowa and Simon Shanga have all left the club under unclear circumstances. And to fill the void left by these players, Maruwa has so far signed ex-Dynamos pair of defender Peace Makaha and forward Ngandu Mangala. Denzel Mutudza and Joe Nyabinde have also joined from Bulawayo Chiefs while Tawanda Nyamandwe, Godwin Goriyati, Lot Chiunga and Blessing Mangaunidze are being assessed. Maruwa is happy with the progress they have made so far. “I am happy with my players and the progress that we have made so far. We are working hard to regain form.  “We’ve been working hard to stay in shape,” he said. “We are looking forward to the match against CAPS United. We want to win the match and hopefully, it will be an entertaining one.  “Currently, the fitness of the players is good but we need to continue working hard. There are a lot of matches to come.” Chauya Chipembere, who are in the sixth position on the log, opened their league campaign with a 2-0 victory over Highlanders before a goalless draw against Herentals. CAPS United, on the other hand, managed only two draws in their opening two matches. Fixtures: Saturday:  Chicken Inn v Tenax (Luveve) Sunday:  Bulawayo Chiefs v FC Platinum (Luveve), Black Rhinos v CAPS United (Sakubva)