Ahead of upcoming elections in the country, electoral watchdog, the Zimbabwe Election Support Network (Zesn) insists that electoral body the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) develop an ongoing, comprehensive voter education strategy. Zesn states the following as key areas to consider on Civic awareness and Vote Education. The Zec should refine the regulations governing voter literacy such that education initiatives are implemented on a continual basis and in line with international covenants on citizens’ right to information, including access for those who are disabled or illiterate. Political parties, civil society and relevant government ministries and institutions should focus on dissemination of standardised, accurate and timely information about the electoral process.   Zec should conduct a review its regulations, policy/strategy documents, manuals and planning documents related to civic and voter education (CVE) to ensure a robust and appropriate approach is taken regarding the accuracy, consistency (standardisation) and comprehensiveness of the program, content/messages and a systematic program roll-out and delivery. Consideration should be given to the development of a co-ordinated partnership arrangement, which would enable civil society to support Zec through a more targeted and systematic approach in fulfilling its voter education and outreach mandate, especially to reach rural and more remote places in the country. Voter education efforts conducted by Zec must incorporate and liberalise its regulation of the complementary efforts of civil society. Voter education should be provided on a continuous basis and expand reach to institutions of higher learning and secondary schools and to target first-time voters. Zec should, within the framework of a coordinated partnership agreement, deepen its cooperation with CSOs and institutions of learning (secondary and higher), and government ministries in the design and delivery of civic and voter education. Political parties should also be involved in election-related awareness-raising activities. CVE Targeting The Commonwealth Observer Group encourage CSOs to continue engaging in voter education with all segments of the population, with an emphasis on marginalised groups. The Group commends the ongoing civic education campaigns, especially those targeting women, youth and people who are illiterate. We recommend the prioritisation of such campaigns to ensure increased participation of these groups. It is recommended that CSOs and the Zec engage in voter education programmes throughout the electoral cycle, targeting young voters from age 16. This could increase electoral literacy. Voter education should expand reach to institutions of higher learning and secondary schools and to target first-time voters. While the CVE program should address the needs of all electors, the information needs of the following should be prioritised: • Women; • Young adults; • Students (in secondary and higher education); • First-time voters; • Persons with Disabilities (PWD); • The unlettered (illiterate), and Rural and remote communities About Zesn: Zesn is currently coalition of 36 Non-Governmental Organizations ( formed to co-ordinate activities pertaining to elections. Its mission is to promote democratic elections in Zimbabwe, good governance in general and free and fair elections in particular, whilst adhering to internationally acceptable standards.  Zesn was also established to standardise the NGOs’ election-related activities and methodology, as well as to ensure wider geographical coverage and co-ordination of activities. The vision of Zesn is a Zimbabwe where a democratic electoral environment and processes are upheld. The objectives of  Zesn are:• To enhance citizen participation in issues of governance and democracy;• To promote democratic free and fair electoral processes through objectively and impartially monitoring and observing elections;• To promote the creation of a legal framework and an election culture for free and fair elections; and• To effectively gather, disseminate and communicate objective information about elections and other democratic processes. Zesn’s core programme areas are:• Monitoring and Observation;• Advocacy for Electoral Reforms and Media and Information;• Electoral Education and Capacity Building; and• Monitoring, Evaluation, Accountability and Learning.