IN A major development for the country, new independent television station, 3Ktv, goes live today, following its rip-roaring launch in Harare at the weekend. This comes as Zimbabweans from a wide cross-section of society have warmly welcomed the history-making channel — the first licensed free-to-air private station to operate in the country since television was first introduced in the then Southern Rhodesia in November 1960. The family-viewing oriented station is also available on MultiChoice’s DStv platform, on Channel 293, to all bouquets offered by Africa’s leading entertainment company — from Premium through to Lite. The station’s consummate Head of Programming, Christina Nyirenda-Chimuka The station’s consummate Head of Programming, Christina Nyirenda-Chimuka, told the Daily News yesterday that there was an enormous appetite for “excellent, independent and locally-produced television content in the country and among Zimbabweans in the diaspora”.  “Zimbabweans have been crying for competition and more quality local programming for quite some time, and they now have it in 3Ktv. “This view was amplified at our lively launch on Friday night, where our commitment to showcasing the very best of Zimbabwe all round, with content produced by Zimbabweans for Zimbabweans, was received enthusiastically. “Indeed, and with the tag line ‘The Best of Zimbabwe’, 3Ktv is well set to meet this hunger for riveting, 24/7 television programming from day one,” Nyirenda-Chimuka said. “I’ve been around around a bit in the media, and I’m convinced that our new baby will be a game-changer in terms of the production, marketing and consumption of local TV products. “As I’ve already alluded to, much of our content will come from local independent producers. We have, for example, Shem Zemura, a multi-award-winning producer who has produced popular films like Kushata KweMoyo and Muzita Rababa. “We are very proud that 3Ktv will be the first of the six stations which were licensed by authorities in late 2020 to take off.” “Shem is producing Tangled for 3Ktv, a telenovela that will air four times a week. Nakai Beauty Tsuro, another multi-award winner, will produce I Can Act, a reality show where the winning contestants will act in a new series in Season Two on 3Ktv,” Nyirenda-Chimuka added. “We also have Shaun Chitsiga, who is producing a reality game show: Zim’s Best Barber — which focuses on bringing the barber profession to the limelight. “He is also producing Sustain, a documentary on Sustainable Development Goals, as well as Fans of Zimbabwe, a show focusing on sports fans. “We also have Dorothy Chidzao, yet another award winner, who is producing a drama titled Mawombera, which looks at family matters and showcases both rural and city life. Dorothy is well known for producing Gringo, a Zimbabwean sitcom,” Nyirenda-Chimuka said further. “In addition, we also have Lenni of Ya!Sibo Media, another Bulawayo-based multi-award-winner. Ya-Sibo is producing Foodie Lovers, a dating show and Our Weekender, which showcases tourist spots in and around the Bulawayo area. Over and above this, our in-house productions will also showcase Zimbabwe’s beautiful and diverse cultures. We will not disappoint our viewers,” she also said. All this comes as jubilant Zimbabweans, drawn from different sectors, have warmly welcomed 3Ktv. Among those who have embraced the arrival of the station is the chief executive of the Zimbabwe Advertising Research Foundation (ZARF), Pamela Gwanzura, who has said that it will “freshen up” the broadcasting sector. “The launch of 3Ktv on the Zimbabwe media landscape is incredible because from the highlights I have seen so far, 3Ktv is coming with a fresh feel and thrust towards promoting quality local talent. “3Ktv could be a conduit to our local talent being recognised in the international arena. This is a great development. “On the media front, 3Ktv is entering the TV space and positioning itself against existing competitors. “We, at ZARF will be happy to track 3Ktv’s progress through our Zimbabwe All Media and Products Survey (ZAMPS) in terms of its viewership from the time it is launched,” Gwanzura said. On her part, the chairperson of the Advertising Standards Authority of Zimbabwe (ASAZIM), Sapi Bachi, said the coming on stream of 3Ktv would give consumers more choices. “We have heard of the licences that were issued two years ago. It’s really exciting to see one coming out. “The consumer now has an option in terms of what they can watch. This is because competition … makes us better. “Our media space is now … more interesting. I think for brands, this development in our media space, in terms of channels and preferences, is going to become very important. “For consumers, choice is an amazing thing. We are going to be given choice in terms of what we watch and I think that’s a really exciting development,” Bhachi said. The executive secretary of the Marketers Association of Zimbabwe (MAZ), Gillian Rusike, said 3Ktv was going to provide more competition in the media industry. “For the marketing profession, this is a welcome development as it allows choices to be made from the various options. “Choices will be made based on value for money and return on investment. Choices will also be made on quality output to convey the exact messages for the intended audience. “From a marketing perspective, this is a welcome development which will give marketers another platform to reach new audiences with their offerings.  We look forward to exciting moments ahead,” Rusike said. A proud Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services minister, Monica Mutsvangwa, said at the glittering launch event of the channel in Harare on Friday night that this marked the beginning of a new era in the broadcasting sector. “It is my singular honour and privilege to officiate at this momentous occasion, the official launch of 3Ktv, one of the six commercial television stations that my ministry, through the Broadcasting Authority of Zimbabwe, licensed in November 2020. “You agitated for the reform of the media sector and as a listening government we responded positively by opening up the broadcasting and print media spaces to allow for more diverse voices. National broadcasting signals carrier, Transmedia, also said the arrival of 3Ktv was testament to the government’s commitment to opening up the airwaves to ensure plurality in the media industry. Transmedia chief executive, Adonia Mushosho, said the national signals carrier was delighted by the new development in the broadcasting services sector. “As Transmedia we want to congratulate 3Ktv for being the first private broadcaster to come on our Digital Terrestrial Television (DTT) platform.  “We are very excited in this new era where a number of private broadcasters have been licenced and we are taking them on board. “We are happy that we are beginning to see the fruition of the government’s mandate to ensure that there is variety for the people of Zimbabwe, and us as the transmission company for signals are very excited to take on board 3Ktv,” Mushosho said. On the digitisation programme, Mushosho said significant progress had been recorded so far. “If you are using digital TV, then we have 18 sites that are already active,” he added. 3Ktv was licenced in November 2020, having come tops following a credible and keenly-fought bidding and public hearing process. The station is a sister venture to Zimbabwe’s iconic and number one business newspaper, The Financial Gazette, as well as the inimitable Daily News and the Daily News On Sunday.