A HARARE man has been slapped with a US$100 000 lawsuit for allegedly having an adulterous relationship with a married woman while her husband was in South Africa. Gareth Lecluse is accused of engaging in an extra-marital affair with Clyde Matthew Bowes’ wife, Wendy, and even allegedly stayed with her at his house in Mt Pleasant. Through his lawyer Admire Rubaya, Bowes has approached the High Court suing Lecluse for US$50 000 for an alleged infringement of their right to privacy, dignity and reputation and another US$50 000 in damages arising from the loss of comfort and services of his wife as a result of the adulterous relationship. He alleged that Lecluse took advantage of his absence and engaged in an adulterous relationship with his wife and mother of two, interfering with their union having been married in 2008 in New Zealand.   Bowes further claimed that this had resulted in the breaking down of his family and separation with his children.  “The defendant has been involved in an adulterous relationship with the plaintiff’s spouse, Wendy Kathryn Bowes, since 2019 after plaintiff and his wife made the decision to relocate, in circumstances where plaintiff would initially remain in South Africa, whilst his wife, Wendy Kathryn Bowes, would relocate to Zimbabwe and stay at his mother’s house. “The defendant knowingly and intentionally took advantage of the plaintiff’s absence from the country, committed adultery on numerous occasions, whilst plaintiff’s wife was being housed by plaintiff’s mother, which was very embarrassing for plaintiff,” the lawyers wrote. Lecluse was given 10 days to enter an appearance to defend if he wished to oppose Bowes’ claim. In the papers filed at the High Court, Bowes claimed the two alleged adulterers admitted to engaging in the immoral relationship and that they even stayed together as husband and wife when the affair came to light.  “Upon plaintiff wife’s confessing the adulterous relationship to the plaintiff in April 2020, defendant openly had the plaintiff’s wife live with him at 15 Coull Drive, Mount Pleasant, Harare (defendant’s residence), as if he is married to her, which acts are not only immoral, but have gravely caused to plaintiff serious embarrassment, infringement of the right to privacy, dignity and reputation, as well as loss of all comfort and services of Plaintiff’s wife. “More specifically, on various occasions and at the aforesaid place and other places unknown to the plaintiff, the defendant and the plaintiff’s wife have committed adultery, which adultery the defendant has expressly admitted to at the aforesaid place of residence,” the lawyers alleged.