THE Harare City Council (HCC) and Geo Pomona Waste Management (Pvt) Ltd yesterday said they are ready to work with all stakeholders on the €303.9 million Pomona dumpsite project. The project would see the dumpsite being turned into a 22 MW energy plant to feed electricity into the national grid. In a joint statement yesterday, HCC and Geo Pomona Waste Management (Pvt) Ltd said they were eager to have a good relationship with all stakeholders. “All private parties active in waste collection are at liberty to engage with Geo Pomona Waste Management (Private) Limited on the modalities of how their relationship with it can progress going forward. Geo Pomona is ready to work with all stakeholders in the interests of this Project. “This project will completely transform the Pomona Dumpsite into a modern urban waste management facility for the City of Harare and its residents, elevating the city’s urban waste disposal capabilities to modern standards. The benefits of such a milestone, if allowed and supported by all stakeholders, are extensive,” the statement read. They also said Geo Pomona Waste Management (Pvt) Ltd had attained full control of the dumpsite. “Geo Pomona Waste Management (Private) Limited is the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) carrying out the Project. Following fulfilment of the conditions precedent in terms of the contract, the Pomona Dumpsite was officially handed over by the City of Harare to Geo Pomona on the 28th of April 2022. “There was agreed joint management of the dumpsite by both the City of Harare and Geo Pomona up until the 20th of May 2022 from which date, Geo Pomona attained full control and management of the Dumpsite. “The project was necessary in order to address all concerns raised by the various stakeholders and to adopt best practice and modern technology consistent with world standards. The Project deserves the support of all of us.”  For the next 30 years, the two parties shall work hand in hand to ensure the contract is carried through to its successful conclusion. HCC concluded a Build, Own, Operate and Transfer (BOOT) joint venture agreement with Geogenix B.V. in March. The key components of the agreement includes, encapsulation of the existing landfill, internal infrastructure works (utilities, roads, drainage), construction of a new landfill, construction of a waste water treatment plant, construction of a biogas plant, construction of a recycling plant, construction of a waste-to-energy plant, construction of a recreation area within the landfill and management of the entire waste treatment area.